The ultimate match up between good and evil, "The Untouchables" is an excellent movie because it looks deeper into an already examined rivalry. 

Based on the 1959 television show of the same title, "The Untouchables" may be an exaggeration of the real life events that took place, but it fits together perfectly with some beautifully filmed action sequences, some excellent acting, a memorable score, and a clever script.

The film takes place in Chicago during the prohibition era where mobsters led by the ruthless Al Capone run an underground market of liquor to the demanding public.

Elliot Ness and a small force of men known as the untouchables attempt the impossible by trying to stop Capone and trying to maintain peace and order.

However, as Ness soon learns, in order to stabilize peace, you have to bend a few laws. 

The fact that Capone is evil is very apparent from the first few scenes.

The film begins with Capone, played perfectly by Deniro, declaring that he is not a violent man and he is a firm believer in following all laws.

The film then quickly transfers to the next scene in which one of Capone's men bombs a restaurant that contains many innocent people including a little girl. 

From this point we know Capone is evil, not only because he kills without hesitation, but also because he is a lying bastard.

Right from the first five minutes of the film, De Palma has created a hatred towards Capone and he shows that this man must be brought down at all costs.

This developed hatred is before the film's hero, Ness, is even introduced.

I found this approach to be very clever because in a small duration of time there is a great amount of admiration for Ness and an equal amount of hatred for Capone.

The film only gets better from this point. 

With the formation of the untouchables, there is a group of men wearing long, dark overcoats and hats.

They walk in unison and they only look forward.

As they walk down the streets they are observed and feared by citizens.

Holding shot guns and pistols in their hands to stop criminals, this image of vigilantes must have influenced future films.

One that comes to mind is "The Matrix" when Neo, Morpheus, Trinity, and the rest of the gang first come into the virtual world.

Wearing more futuristic outfits of the same 1930's style, the similarities between these two are countless. 

"The Untouchables" has some of the hippest, bravest heroes in any action film.

The four members were the only ones willing to go against Capone's army. 

Each member of this special group also had their own characteristics that separated them from others.

Elliot Ness, played with perfect ingenuity by Kevin Costner, is a character that surely grows during the course of the film.

He begins as a man who is determined to follow all laws no matter how unfair they may be.

However, as the film develops so does Ness.

His beliefs involving the law are shattered when he realizes that those he trusted are actually members of the other side.

He also begins to lose his stability when his adversaries begin to murder his friends.

His anger becomes so thunderous that he can no longer hold it in.

Sean Connery, who won an Academy Award for best supporting actor in his role, plays Malone, an aging cop who decides to make one final run as a member of the untouchables. 

Malone acts as a mentor to Ness.

He teaches him "the Chicago way" to do things; when they attack with a knife, you attack with a gun.

Connery plays his character with the exact amount of wit and experience needed.

Andy Garcia does a wonderful job as George Stone, a young man who is just becoming a police officer.

As Ness grows, he begins to teach Stone some valuable lessons that Malone once taught him.

Charles Martin Smith is also fantastic as the final member who attempts to use an income tax offense against Capone.

Smith is perfect for his role as he adds some valuable comic relief to the film. 

The action scenes are also some of the most beautifully choreographed I have ever seen.

Also very similar to "The Matrix," they are exciting and intense. >From a Western-like battle to the famous confrontation at the train station steps, the scenes are well thought out and well executed.

The score during these scenes ingeniously adds to the excitement.

Its pounding drum beats act as a rhythm for the actors.

The combination of image and music is very impressive and also very effective. 

Although the real life untouchables may have been excessively glorified, this film is pure entertainment and contains a unique blend of great acting, great directing, and great action.

Some scenes (Capone and the baseball bat, the train station) have stuck in my mind for years and seeing them again will only make them more vivid. 



