THE TRUMAN SHOW 

After a long wait, Jim Carrey's dramatic debut finally makes it to the big screen. 

In case you've been asleep for the last few months, the plot centres on Truman Burbank (Carrey) who leads an seemingly idyllic life in the beautiful town of Seahaven. 

His life seems so perfect, however, because it's controlled by Christoff (Harris) creator of The Truman Show, the program Burbank is unwittingly the hero of. 

That's right, Burbank's life is being broadcast live to the American public, and Seahaven and all it's inhabitants are inclosed in a massive sound stage. 

The film takes the Jerry Springer format one step too far... 

With an idea so different, it would be easy for the director and screenwriter to dumb it down and appeal to the lowest common denominator. 

Luckily, the film remains sensible enough to appeal to all ages, yet never seems to be a dumb Carrey movie. 

Talking of Carrey, he's perfect in this movie, enjoying the best role in his career. 

His character is a re-inforced Stanley Ipkiss from The Mask (1994) and is completely suited to Carrey's persona. 

He occasionally falls into Ace Ventura mode, shrieking and being silly, but generally the audience is watching subdued Carrey. 

He's not completely dramatic like the film promises, however. 

Ed Harris brings an extreme intensity to Christoff, the megalomaniac creator of the show. 

Quiet and well spoken, he burns an image into the viewer. 

Unfortunately, he's barely in the film, and for the first hour dosen't appear at all! 

Also disappointing is Natascha McElhone's character Sylvia. 

She plays the role well, but her character is sadly underwritten and is pushed to the sidelines just when the audience is used to her. 

The supporting cast is excellent, and the town of Seahaven looks delightfully perfect, so perfect it's creepy. 

The Philip Glass soundtrack is also superb, and is used to great effect during the film. 

Peter Weir keeps the film going, clearly having fun. 

The film is far more upbeat than his previous films Dead Poets Society and Green Card. 

Although it is slightly slow to begin with, about half an hour into film the pace really picks up, and when Christoff is introduced fully the film is on a roll. 

Sadly, though, the film is practically over when the film is in full steam. 

Also, concerning the ending, it is slightly too ambiguous, which was disappointing. 

The screenwriter, Andrew Niccol, who bought us Gattaca (1997) delivers an entertaining script, and manages to keep the plot in trim. 

While Christoff's plans to keep Truman in do get increasingly silly, they never go over the line, which would have been easy for Niccol to do. 

Also, there's some funny gags involving product placement and the people who watch the show. 

Overall, The Truman Show is excellent entertainment. 

Certainly different from the usual crap Hollywood produces, it should be viewed by everyone. 

It offers something to every member of the audience, and you would almost certainly not come out disappointed. 
