Just how inseparable is the team of Sgt. Martin Riggs (Mel Gibson) and Sgt. Roger Murtaugh (Danny Glover)?

Let's just say that when one partner asks the other partner to strip to his boxer shorts and then further asks him to run out into the middle of the road, flapping his arms while feverishly cackling like a chicken just to create a distraction, his partner actually does it! 

The familiar Lethal Weapon family is back, including Rene Russo, who is now the expectant mother of Riggs' child and Joe Pesci as the soprana-like, foul-mouthed former accountant who has decided to become a private eye.

New to the team is Chris Rock, also a fast-talking, up and coming detective. 

Trouble seems to follow the two veteran detectives where ever they go, and in this film, that is no exception.

Even when they are just taking a leisurely boat ride, they somehow manage to collide with a freighter ship. 

We here some ominous music, which clues us that a confrontation is about to happen.

Gunfire ensues, and when it's all over, the detectives want to learn more about this freighter by questioning a Chinatown crime lord. 

Although they don't know what they're looking for, their inquisitiveness causes the bad guys to take some action.

And there's plenty of action here for two movies.

Led by fighting sensation Jet Li, whose martial arts skill is nothing less than impressive, he does what he can to make sure that no one finds out what they are up to.

Li is ruthless in his approach, will kill anyone just to make a point, and develops enormous disdain for the two detectives. 

There are terrific car chases, explosions and gunshot galore.

It's a summer action recipe followed to the letter, and the result is nothing less than pure, unadulterated summer fun.

But even too many explosions can get boring. 

To counter that, we are treated to several amazingly choreographed fight sequences with Jet Li.

Luckily, he'd rather fight hand-to-hand instead of firing off guns.

Meanwhile, when the detectives aren't reloading their guns or running from fireballs, they're engaged in sophomoric banter and silly conversations that provide a nice diversion from the hail of bullets. 

Everybody gets in on the shtick.

Russo screams during her delivery, the crime lord has a few funny bits when he's being interrogated while being given laughing gas, and Pesci and Rock are very funny as they go at it discussing the drawbacks of having cellular phones.

Gibson and Glover are always in sync and the film moves at a brisk pace to get to the final and terrific mano a mano.

Score one for the Old Guard. 
