As the film opens up, expectant unwed mother Sally (played by Drew Barrymore) encounters her baby's father in a fast food drive-through window. 

After he gets his milkshake, he drives off, only to be pursued by a military helicopter. 

From this moment forward, you know that this isn't going to be your run-of-the-mill romantic comedy. 

Home Fries tells the tale of the relationship between Sally and Dorian (played by Luke Wilson), a helicopter pilot who has a different kind of connection with Sally... more than he would care to admit (hint: it has something to do with the father of Sally's unborn child). 

After taking a personal (and professional) interest in her, he finds work at the local fast food restaurant at which she works, and the fun goes on from there. 

This movie is a lot of fun. 

It is comedic on two levels, as a romantic comedy and a dark comedy. 

The romantic moments are sweet, yet not sappy. 

One of the more poignant moments is when Dorian accompanies Sally to Lamaze classes. 

However, the dark comedic moments are more memorable. 

This is also a tale of revenge, and a funny one at that. 

The father of Sally's unborn child also happened to be a married man, whose wife is played by Catherine O'Hara. 

She does a wonderful portrayal of a jealous wife who is targeting the person who had an affair, and is not above getting other people to do her dirty work. 

(My apologies if this sounds cryptic, but there is too much of the plot to give away). 

Rounding out the cast are Jake Busey as Angus, Dorian's overzealous brother and Daryl Mitchell as Roy, Dorian's trainer at the fast food restaurant. 

The dialogue is sharp and not filled with sappy overtones, even with the romantic nature of the plot. 

If there are any complaints, it is over Drew Barrymore's performance. 

While she does light up the screen, there are moments when she doesn't seem all that convincing. 

The movie was filmed in Texas, and most of the characters have southern Texan accents. 

Drew Barrymore's accent tends to come and go (Luke Wilson doesn't seem to have this problem). 

As well, she seems awfully agile for a woman that is eight months pregnant. 

Still, this movie is one that will please many viewers. 

With plot twists galore and hilarious dark moments, this is sure to entertain. 
