This Christmas, little Ralphie Parker (Peter Billingsley) wants nothing more than a Red Ryder BB Gun under the tree.

Although cautioned by many that he will shoot his eye out', Ralphie remains optimistic, conjuring up a detailed scheme to get on the good side of his parents and teachers.

It could be possible that no one has ever wanted anything with more passion than Ralphie wants this BB Gun, and the story of his eternal struggle is a charming one. `A Christmas Story' is a favorite among many during the Holiday season, and boy, it is certainly easy to see why.

Ralphie's endless desire for the BB Gun may transport you back to your childhood, when you were craving a certain gift for Christmas and the anxiety was almost indescribable.

Evoking pleasant childhood memories is only one of the many things `A Christmas Story' does so well.

Here are a few features that make this film such a charming little package for everybody during the Holiday season: 1) Period detail.

This film is based on the memoirs of late humorist Jean Shepard, who shares his experiences as a young boy living in the 1940's with loving detail.

Shepard narrates from a first person point-of-view, divulging his various adventures one snowy December, in which visions of taking aim with his new BB Gun replaced that of sugarplums dancing in his head. 

Shepard's first-hand commentary of several situations is not only downright hilarious, but also witty and warm, with various metaphorical meanings that ring perfectly with the essence of comic timing.

On top of that, young Billingsley's stupefied reactions to each predicament is absolutely perfect in contrast with the narration.

Director Bob Clark captures the look and feel of the era with wonderful technicality.

I can hardly imagine a more accurate depiction of what Christmas for young Ralphie must have been like. 

2) Mom and Dad.

Both Melinda Dillon (as mom) and Darren McGavin (as the old man') are perfect in their roles.

It's hard to fathom a more agreeable pair for the requirements of a story like this one, with each possessing at least one memorable trait that instantly separates them from the wooden caricatures that could have been featured. 

For instance, he is a bloodthirsty turkey hound, and she is forgiving and understanding when it comes to some serious issues.

In portraying the writer as a persistent but mild-mannered young lad, Peter Billingsley has struck quite the chord.

His performance is richly textured, making all of the humorous situations he stumbles into radiate with flavor and enjoyment.

Which brings us to.... 

3) The Comic Situations.

There are plenty of memorable moments in `A Christmas Story'.

Moments that undoubtedly will improve in comic potency upon each new viewing, with so much more to explore and to cherish.

I am particularly partial of the f-word scene', in which Ralphie blurts out the shocking four-letter obscenity while helping the old man in the yard.

Again, Shepard's method of handling this amusing scenario is nothing short of comic wizardry. 

The numerous sequences that stick in one's mind include, of course, the famous department store Santa scene-in which Billingsley has some problems in telling Old Saint Nick what he wants under the tree. 

I could go on, but I'll finish on this note: `A Christmas Story' is a standout among Holiday movies, because it captures so much in a meager 90 minutes.

Not only is it funny, it's often genuinely hilarious.... not to mention warm, fluffy and touching in all the appropriate places.

I plan on making `A Christmas Story' a Christmas tradition.

Why don't you? 

Your Comments Appreciated!

[ 1]movieviews@hotmail.com 


