Whew. 

This film oozes energy, the kind of breakneck, no-holds-barred, in-your-face risk-taking filmmaking that is seldom seen on screen these days. 

Like the marginal, motley bunch of post-apocalyptic youths director Danny Boyle tries to depict, TRAINSPOTTING veers on the edge of utter mayhem but ultimately retains its footing and control. 

The result: a movie that is a delightful example of how the medium is the message. 

The message: a bunch of losers with loser names, Mark Renton (Ewan McGregor), Spud (Ewan Bremner), Sick Boy (Jonny Lee Miller), Tommy (Kevin McKidd), and Begbie (Robert Carlyle). 

Bored, aimless and restless, their routine consists of getting drunk at the local pub, grooving to techno or glam-rock at the local disco and getting shots up the arm at the local den and procuring cash through a variety of methods, some ingenious, others plainly dumb and desperate. 

Not part of the daily dose if obtained, sex is a bonus. 

You can find these characters as they are, foul-mouthed, dirty, pathetic, ugly perhaps but definitely interesting, in Irvin Welsh's cult novel of the same name. 

What makes the film a completely different experience is how director Boyle uses every tool at his disposal to make the filmic medium synchronous with the message. 

One of the first things you'll notice is how the camera seems to dart around restlessly. 

It'll truck into a character's pimple, just as soon as it will dolly out to an establishing shot. 

Distracted and curious, it'll maintain a character's eye-level or drop right to the ground to show the doped-out-eye-view. 

You'll even find characters peering into the camera, their faces smeared across the wide-angle lens. 

This film camera is just another one of the guys. 

Tiptoeing that indistinguishable line between fantasy and reality, Boyle employs a healthy dose of surrealism to get the message across. 

Bored kids daydream and bored kids deprived of a heroin fix have nightmares. 

I don't want to give too much away, but if you cross Chuckie from CHILD 'S PLAY with some of the wacky fantasies in HEAVENLY CREATURES, you might have an idea just how fun or pants-wetting scary the alternate state of consciouness can be. 

That said, this film has a good share of drugs-consumed, vomitted, defecated, pissed off, exchanged, bought, sold, injected, smuggled, enjoyed and regretted. 

If that isn't your cup of tea, nobody forced you to see the film. 

Stay at home and rent UP CLOSE AND PERSONAL. 

And what's a buzz without tunes. 

From Pulp to Iggy Pop (yes, he's still alive), the aural landscape is as engaging as the visual energy permeating the film. 

Good and bad vibrations tangle like the conflicting desires and values of the message. 

Every once in a while, a film comes along with the kind of energetic filmmaking that matches the intensity of its characters it hopes to depict. 

Trainspotting is that shooting star that burns across a sky littered with static constellations. 
