AMERICAN PIE 

American Pie acknowledges a cold, hard fact that most movies don't: it is very difficult to get laid. 

Its four virgin heroes are Jim (Biggs), a chronic masturbator, Kev (Nicholas), who desperately wants to deflower his girlfriend (Reid), Oz (Klein), a lacrosse player whose approach requires some fine tuning, and Finch (Eddie Kaye Thomas), a germphobe (his crass nickname is hilarious, but I won't spoil it here) who pays a classmate to spread rumours about the size of his member. 

Jim, Kev, Oz and Finch attend a high school in suburban Michigan full of so many impossibly beautiful women it's no wonder they're horny all the time. 

After a party at their studly friend Stifler's (Seann William Scott, in the film's sharpest performance) house leaves them sexually unsatisfied, the quartet make a pact: to "lose it" by graduation-specifically, prom night, which is only a few weeks away. 

American Pie is in the tradition of Bachelor Party or Revenge of the Nerds. 

Almost every conversation these characters have revolves around makin ' whoopee. 

All women are there to be ogled. 

(Alyson Hannigan's perky music student is the only memorable female of the bunch.) 

Situations abound that defy logic only to arouse and/or amuse its core audience, adolescent boys. 

(To arouse: Nadia's (Shannon Elizabeth) Internet striptease-an unexpectedly raucous (and guiltily pleasurable) sequence. 

To amuse: Jim's lusty encounter with a hot apple pie.) 

What differentiates American Pie from those dirty eighties comedies, aside from a very nineties obsession with bodily fluids*, is a cast that's light years more appealing than that of, say, Just One of the Guys. 

Two more standouts: Klein and "SCTV"'s Eugene Levy. 

Klein plays a kind-hearted athlete for the second time in a row, after Alexander Payne's underappreciated Election. 

I hope to see more of this warm actor with the disarmingly honest face very soon. 

Levy's is the most crowd-pleasing performance, and indeed, it's nice to see him back on the big screen in a role that makes wonderful use of that expressive brow. 

American Pie also wants to emulate the teen flicks your parents _would_ let you watch growing up. 

It skillfully employs a broad mix of pop tunes, much like John Hughes' movies did, and even pays homage to The Breakfast Club a couple of times, most evidently when the prom band covers Simple Minds' "Don't You (Forget About Me)." 

The picture ultimately has a healthy, if obligatory, attitude towards safe sex-even at their most libidinous, American Pie's protagonists first whip out a condom. 

The filmmakers prove that socially responsible raunch is possible. 

For its familiarity and for its charming leads, I recommend American Pie, but the buzz on this film had me expecting something... fresher. 

As far as the New Teen Cinema goes, it's at the top of the heap. *Don't say I didn't warn you about the party scene. 
