Trailing the success of brit humour in the movie industry with the likes of the semi-dramatic THE COMMITMENTS and the nearly slapstick A FISH CALLED WANDA, THE FULL MONTY is one film which delivered the depth of the former and the humour magnitude of the latter.

The film opens with a narrated documentary reel showing the improving economic and living standards of Sheffield in the 60's, then cut to the harsh reality of the present. 

Sheffield has become some sort of a semi-slum with the only visible increase in anything was the amount of layoffs from steel-factories; a once flourishing industry. 

Gaz (Carlyle) spends most of his time in the Worker's Club, a sort of place where jobless people sit around to wait for job offers.

He and his `plump' friend Dave (Addy) as well as their former foreman Gerald (Wilkinson) have been sitting around the club for months without any `call for duty'.

What seemingly was just a passing hard time for Gaz suddenly transformed itself into desperation when he cannot afford the 700 pounds of child-support money to his ex-wife.

Suddenly finding himself facing the possiblity of losing custody of his son, he goes on to concoct an enterprising wild-idea to get the money he desperately requires. 

Dave and Gerald too have problems of their own.

On top of his lack of employment, Dave is also faced with the paranoia of his wife leaving him because of his current financial state as well as his`plump' appearance while Gerald have been cheating on his wife by not telling her of his layoff for as long asmonths, leaving home for `work' when he was actually a long-standing member of the Worker's Club.

There we have it; people with real problems and a not-so-practical solution for them.

Gaz manages to get the support from them and sure enough they managed to get a few other poor jobless blokes to join in their gag: to perform a strip-act at the local pub.

In Gaz's own words while looking at an add for a strip-act featuring hunky `beautiful' men, `If women are willing to pay for this, they sure as well will pay for REAL-men'. 

THE FULL MONTY is very simple in nature and not a trace ambitious at all.

It is a small film which delves in the harsh-reality of unemployment and the desperation it drives people to.

It also is a very light movie to watch despite the theme it delves in because it has a lot of human-factor going for it.

Never for once, was it trying to be manipulative at all, THE FULL MONTY was true to itself all the way.

While the hilarity level of this film soared unexpectedly high, audience will find that they are in no way being cheated of a laugh, something lacking in many comedy films (wannabes?) from Hollywood. 

Other than Carlyle, who acted as the psychotic Begbie in TRAINSPOTTING, the rest of the actors were definitely very new to me on-screen.

However, the acting presented in this film is more than satisfying.

Carlyle's work here is a stark contrast to his character in TRAINSPOTTING, implying real acting skill and flexibility on-screen.

Kudos to the people involved in this film, especially to director Peter Cattaneo for being able to put together an excellent film which is has so much potential in ending up as your just-another-STRIPTEASE. 

Already a critical and financial success for such a small film, THE FULL MONTY is a humble film which deserves applause throughout.

While TITANIC managed to feast the eyes and soul in an epic way, THE FULL MONTY gives one the same satisfaction.in half the time. 
