THE MUPPET MOVIE is the first, and the best movie among the ever-growing list of Muppet movies. 

THE MUPPET MOVIE tells the story of how our hero, Kermit the Frog, came to be a star. 

A delightful movie for all ages, THE MUPPET MOVIE is *bursting* with cameo appearances by countless Hollywood stars of the 80's and today. 

THE MUPPET MOVIE begins in a movie theater, where all of the Muppet stars are anxiously awaiting the first showing. 

Once everyone is settled down, the movie inside of the movie begins. 

It starts out with Kermit in a swamp, playing his banjo and singing (this shot required Jim Henson to spend hours underwater). 

Kermit is discovered by Bernie, a big-time Hollywood agent who happens upon Kermit by accident. 

Bernie believes that Kermit holds much potential to become a big star in Hollywood. 

Kermit ponders the idea of becoming a big movie star, where he could "make millions of people happy". 

Kermit decides to leave his swamp and make the trip out to Hollywood. 

Along the way, Kermit befriends his now famous Muppet companions, beginning with Fozzie Bear, who had been spending his days doing stand-up comedy at the El Sleezo Cafe, owned by James Coburn. 

The two decide to team-up and continue on their way to Hollywood. 

But, Doc Hopper (Charles Durning), the owner of a chain of french fried frog leg restaurants has a different idea. 

He wants Kermit to be his spokesman, but Kermit is humiliated at the idea and spends the movie avoiding him and his assistants. 

The trip continues, with Kermit and Fozzie meeting Miss Piggy, Rowlf, Gonzo, the Electric Mayhem Band, and more Muppets who all share the same wish: to make it to Hollywood. 

Oh, and even more celebrities continue to appear. 

Kermit and Miss Piggy continue to get to know each other a little better, including a rather funny scene at a restaurant with Steve Martin as the waiter. 

Eventually, Kermit and the group make it to Hollywood. 

That is, after Kermit is finally able to elude Doc Hopper and proclaim his freedom. 

Lord Lew, a big-time Hollywood producer portrayed by Orson Welles, gives Kermit his shot at stardom and gives him the go-ahead to produce a movie. 

THE MUPPET MOVIE is definitely a movie that is fun for all ages. 

It is also a sure-deal as one parents can watch, and enjoy along with their kids. 
