Aggressive, bleak, and unrelenting film about an interracial couple, Steve and Sam (Damon Jones and Elexa Williams respectively), who are viciously attacked in a parking garage one night by a gang of skinheads. 

The skinheads beat Steve, then force him to watch as they brutally rape his girlfriend over and over again. 

When Sam kills herself later that evening, Steve decides that the skinheads must be taught a lesson. 

Waiting seven months for the thuggish skinheads to forget about the incident entirely, Steve shaves his head, dresses in combat boots and suspenders, tattoos his flesh with Nazi symbols, and tries to infiltrate the gang. 

As he gets closer and closer to the people who committed the horrible crime against his girlfriend, he begins to learn just how vicious these people really are and starts to question his own motives for violence. 

Randolph Kret's script, based on two real life incidents that affected not only his life but the life of the film's producer Shaun Hill, is an affront on violence and intolerance. 

The film causes its audience to be subjected to such brutality and ignorance that one can't help but be disgusted by the events presented within. 

I've seen it said that this is the film Fight Club should have been, but David Fincher's film was trying to define a generation. 

Kret's film is a wake up call to a generation and his message is a powerful one. 

If Fincher is the Kubrick of our generation, then Kret is our D.W. Griffith (thematically speaking). 

There is not a single likable character in the film. 

The skinheads are obviously the most repulsive characters in the film, not only because of their beliefs but because they are in a constant state of fury (not just against other races but within their own circles). 

The African-American characters in the film are constantly shown as sexually assaulting drug abusers who are always on a joyride looking for someone to accost. 

Even gay men get in on the act, locating the skinheads' lair and beating them severely with lead pipes and other blunt objects. 

The main character Steve is also unlikable because of the person he becomes just to seek out revenge. 

What all of this comes down to is the simple message that violence begets violence, and the constant clashes between factions will do nothing but continue the endless cycle of violence inherent in our society. 

The cast of this film is absolutely remarkable. 

Damon Jones shows a raw energy that many actors can't seem to summon these days and his performance seems nothing less than powerful. 

His initial reaction to hearing about his girlfriend's suicide is one of the most affecting scenes I have ever seen in a film. 

David Lee Wilson, who plays (appropriately enough) David Lee is accurately evil as the second in command skinhead who also makes extra money performing oral sex on other men (an irony that seems lost on the other skinheads). 

Wilson's character is pure hatred and he brings out this hate perfectly. 

Sadly, actor Dave Ward, who portrays the character of Crew, will not be able to follow up his excellent performance as he was the victim of a vicious act of violence himself at the hands of a fellow actor during an incident of road rage. 

Ward showed immense promise and he will be greatly missed. 

Note: It is a shame that the filmmakers had to add a disclaimer to the end of the film stating that neither they nor the musicians contributing music for the film condone racism. 

The message about hatred couldn't be spelled out any more clearly than it is here, but there are those who would probably find this film much more akin to a training video than a condemnation. 

There are no "winners" at the end of this film either. 

No character gets his or her comeuppance and the ending leaves us almost right where we began. 

Where American History X had redemption for most of its characters, no such victories are in store for Pariah's band of twisted souls. 

It is this bleak ending that carries the film's most powerful message: the message that, despite what you may be able to momentarily do to put your own mind to rest, evil will still be with us (and in many forms) and there is very little than can be done to eradicate it entirely. 
