It is simply amazing how "The Green Mile" developed in its three hour running time. 

Based on the Stephen King series of the same title, the film starts out painfully slow, with underdeveloped characters and idiotic dialogue. 

However, as the plot begins to progress, the film turns into pure perfection with outstanding performances and wonderful direction. 

Frank Darabont, who masterfully followed a prisoner's story in "The Shawshank Redemption", this time follows the perspective of a prison guard, Paul Edgecomb (Tom Hanks). 

Through Edgecomb's experiences on a cell block known as the green mile where death row prisoners wait and repent, the audience sees good and evil on both sides of the law. 

From an evil prison guard to an evil prisoner, "The Green Mile" is successful in creating sympathy for kind-hearted hard working guards and hard thinking prisoners. 

The plot follows Edgecomb and four other guards as they meet a variety of prisoners and after having strong relationships with each eventually are forced to execute them. 

The performances by veterans and new comers to back up these original characters are superb. 

The ensemble acting in the film is perfect. 

Hanks, David Morse and Barry Pepper as guards are wonderful and are fitting for their roles. 

They are the characters we most relate to because of their calm less extreme roles. 

They are given the positions to make rational decisions at difficult times and they are the ones who fulfill the demands of the audience. 

The more unique characters perfectly create friction on the green mile and make the story interesting and exciting. 

Some particularly note worthy roles of the unique characters include Doug Hutchinson, Sam Rockwell, and Michael Duncan. 

Hutchinson, playing Percy Wetmore, a cowardly guard who hides his true feelings by tormenting others gives the greatest performance of the movie. 

Every time he appears on the screen, the attitude of others is very uncomfortable and the creepy expressions he is able to create are effectively terrifying. 

It would come as no surprise if Hutchinson was nominated for an Academy Award as best supporting actor, not only because he did a wonderful job as Wetmore, but also because he stole every scene he was in away from veteran Oscar winner Tom Hanks. 

Rockwell, an independent film veteran, plays his role as Wild Bill Wharton to perfection. 

As a prisoner who taunts and harasses the guards at all hours, he really gets under your skin and irritates you for having to watch him torture others. 

This irritation he creates makes his performance so believable. 

The last noteworthy performance belongs to Duncan, as the enormous convicted killer John Coffey who happens to hold the power of curing the ill. 

Duncan does a wonderful job playing a frightened child-like behemoth, very similar to Lennie Small in Of Mice and Men. 

His desire for love and the extinction of hate evokes the most compassion because it is very obvious that he is suffering for no just cause. 

His pain creates pain for the viewer. 

However, it takes over an hour for Duncan to be introduced completely in the film. 

The film opens with a ridiculous present day setting which contains a scene that jabs at "The Jerry Springer Show." 

The scene, containing one old man complaining about how all guests on the show are inbred and rednecks. 

Not only is this observation entirely pointless and out of place, but it is also hackneyed beyond all belief. 

As the film flashes back to 1935, Graham Greene is quickly executed without any introduction. 

His death seems very rushed and without any knowledge of who he is, the scene is neither sad nor convincing. 

Greene is not even given a final word, like some of the other characters, and we don't even see him walk the infamous green mile. 

However, as the film begins to specifically introduce more characters, such as Coffey and Eduard Delacroix (Michael Jeter) as well as the five prison guards, the film becomes more interesting. 

The speed in "The Green Mile" is perfect. 

If time was a matter of concern and the film was edited to the two hour mark, it would have been unsatisfactory because we would not be able to know the characters as they are or as they treat others. 

The three hour running is perfect for plot development and by the end of the film, a great amount of love or hate is attached to each character. 

"The Green Mile" is so good following the rough beginning, that when the pivotal moment at the very end finally comes, it is almost impossible not to feel some sort of sadness for every person in this scene. 

Fighting back tears was a difficult task that I barely succeeded in doing. 

If you survive the first third of "The Green Mile" sit back and enjoy the remainder for some priceless entertainment. 
