"South Park: Bigger, Longer and Uncut" is undoubtedly crude, offensive, mean-spirited movie, that comes off as a politcally correct movie too. 

If your Canadian, a strong Christian, fat, gay or anything else, you will be offended. 

But when you watch this movie, there is no doubt that you will laugh. 

Based on the wildly popular Comedy Central TV show, South Park stars Cartman, an overweight, foul-mouthed kid, with attitude, and a sweet side. 

Kenny, a poor kid who gets killed in every episode, and talks with his coat hood covering his head. 

Stan a regular, sometimes boring kid who has problems with women. 

And Kyle a lonely jew who talks to his poop. 

The movie opens with a funny, but messageable song, that all of the people of South Park sing. 

Cartman, Stan, Kenny and Kyle are very excited to see the new Terrance And Phillip (Beavis and Butthead types) movie "Asses of Fire". 

But when the kids get up to the movie to get the tickets, they learn the movie is rated R, which of course means that anyone under the age of 17 cannot get in without a parent or legal guardian. 

The kids do not understand this, and they pay a homeless man to buy their tickets. 

While in the movie, laughing at the movie, Terrance and Phillip cuss repeatedly entertaining the kids. 

They kids then go out and cuss themselves, getting in trouble and causing Kyle's mom to go against the MPAA. 

While doing this Kenny learns a thing or to, by proving to Cartman he can light his fart on fire. 

Kenny does so, dies, and goes to hell, to find out that Satan and Saddam Huiessan (homosexual lovers), are about to take over the world, if Terrance and Phillip die. >From here on, nothing more should be said to keep the rest a surprise. 

But believe me, this isn't your regular South Park TV show, and should not be seen by anyone under 14 or more. 

This film contains extreme profanity (over 130 "f" words and a collection of others). 

But beyond being bad in a tasteless type way, South Park: Bigger, Longer and Uncut has many messages that are embedded inside it. 

But I bet you will not leave the movie, for at least laughing one time or more. 

And enjoying yourself. 

Take it from me, South Park: B, L, and U, isn't as good as you'd hope, but it is good for some laughs. 
