To paraphrase a song title from an earlier Disney movie, Mulan is a whole new world. 

The Mouse Factory's latest feature is a treasure, featuring magnificent animation, a strong story and finely drawn characters. 

Mulan is the story of a fiesty, head-strong young woman who, unlike other Disney heroines, isn't seeking her Prince Charming, Mulan's motivations are simple; to save her father, serve her country and find a place for herself in a world in which females have no say. 

The story of Mulan takes place in ancient China at a time when the Huns have invaded the nation.

The emperor has called for a conscription, one man from each family to join the army and defend the nation. 

Mulan's crippled father is called, but Mulan sneaks off, steals his armor and takes his place. 

Mulan is a saga of courage and self-discovery.

Yet, despite the grim backdrop of war, it is a lively tale of self-reliance and brain-over-brawn that even the smallest child can appreciate and enjoy. 

The movie utilizes a strong corps of Asian-American talent as the voices for the main characters, including the wonderful Ming-Na Wen (The Joy Luck Club) as Mulan, B.D. Wong as Shang, Mulan's commanding officer and later love interest, Pat Morita as the Emperor and the veteran Soon-Tek Oh as Mulan's proud, but loving father. 

Also adding to the proceedings is Eddie Murphy as Mushu the dragon, sent by Mulan's ancestors to watch over and help the young woman. 

His fast, wise-cracking, hip-talking Mushu may seem out of place, but it's a crowd pleasing performance, especially for the youngsters. 

The movie features only a couple of songs, fewer than most previous Disney animated flicks, but Mulan's are winners.

The music by Matthew Wilder and lyrics by David Zippel fit nicely into the plot. 

The overall score by Jerry Goldsmith also is a plus. 

Mulan is a treat, more powerful than Hercules, with more heart than The Hunchback of Notre Dame. 

At aboutminutes, Mulan moves rapidly, and will hold the attention of youngsters from beginning to the end. 

Mulan will set a new standard by which future animated efforts by Disney and other studios will have to work hard to attain. 

Also, it is hoped that the success of Mulan, and there is no doubt that it will prove to be a popular vehicle, will spur an interest for more movies with Oriential or Asian-American themes so as to provide more substantial roles for the talented performers who gave their voices for this production. 

It would be nice to see them on screen as well as hear them. 

Bob Bloom is the film critic at the Journal and Courier in Lafayette, Ind. 

He can be reached by e-mail at [ 1]bloom@journal-courier.com or at [ 2]cbloom@iquest.net Carol Bloom of Bloom Ink Publishing Professionals 3312 Indian Rock Lane West Lafayette, IN 47906-1203 765-497-9320 fax 765-497-3112 [ 3]cbloom@iquest.net Committed to Lifelong Learning through Effective Communication 


