You don't want to be like Mike.

Mike has been doing badly.

Embarrassingly bad.

He broke up a six-year relationship six months ago to move from N.Y. to L.A. and he's still not over her.

As a result, his jokes fall flat when he tries to impress, and he's a comedian.

Well, an unemployed comedian, one of Hollywood's little fish, and it has gotten so bad he's asked for an application at Starbuck's.

Actually, the Starbuck's thing gets even worse. 

And worse. 

You won't fail to like Mike, however, played endearingly by Jon Favreau. 

SWINGERS revolves around Mike's half-hearted and awkward efforts to get back in the social swing of things.

To this end he is enthusiastically assisted by his equally underachieving twentysomething actor friends, such as Trent (Vince Vaughn with the film's most animated performance), who has the gift of gab bordering on the disturbing side of motivational speaking, gun-toting Sue (Patrick van Horn), and Rob (Ron Livingston), who once played Hamlet but now longs to work as Goofy in Disneyland, but doesn't succeed because of his lack of "theme park experience."

Together they talk about women-how to make eye contact, which involves avoiding it, and when to call so as never to appear desperate, two days being "industry standard."

After talking the talk, they walk the walk, strutting like the cool swingers they aspire to be, always to laughable effect. 

To get Mike out of his funk, his friends persistently convince him to get outside, whether it be to a quickie night trip to a seedy Vegas casino or a cutthroat Hollywood party with the beautiful people or a 50s swing lounge. 

Everywhere they encourage Mike to look for a replacement "honey" and then keep vigil over his progress, or lack of it.

Like dotty doting parents, Mike never leaves their company without being the recipient of their confidence cheerleading ("You're money, Mike, and the honeys know it.") or equipped with their eccentric dating philosophies, such as an analogy of flirting with the bear and the bunny.

With the unwavering support of friends like these, maybe Mike's not doing too badly after all. 

Favreau also doubled as the film's screenwriter, and he proves he has the gift for creating engaging characters and witty banter that goes beyond today's bon mot.

There is a reassuring honesty to the friendships, even when it hits its low points and the friends commiserate.

When Mike gets the gumption to look for love, you will join his cheerleading section as well. 

SWINGERS is light, unassuming fare, sweet candy you will want to bust your gut with-laughing-again and again. 
