I know it already opened in December, but I finally got around to seeing Rushmore last weekend, and it was one of those rare oppritunites that I got to leave the theatre feeling proud about paying the expensive ticket price. 

As the final scene closed out in happy slow-mo fashion, I felt happy to have been priveleged enough to watch such a good display of filmmaking.

Jason Schwartzman, his face oddly intriguing behind those large braces and glasses, steals the show as Max Fischer, the most well known Rushmore Academy student who gets terrible grades, but compensates for it by organizing most of the school's clubs and organizations (i.e. the fencing team and writing and producing school plays) and often pulling outrageous stunts, one that eventually earns him an expulsion.

This stunt, building an aquarium on the school's baseball diamond, is a plot to steal the heart of widowed elementary teacher Rosemary Cross (Olivia Williams).

He funds this aquarium with the help of millionare Herman Blume (a very Oscarworthy Bill Murray), who eventually finds himself falling in love with Miss Cross. 

Rosemary and Herman begin dating-and the fun begins; Herman and Max go at it head to head in a battle for Miss Cross.

Herman manages to destroy Max's bike, while Max cuts Herman's brakes, and it goes on like this.

But eventually Max realizes he is too young for Miss Cross, and he can't stand in the way of two people in love.

The Academy of Arts & Sciences really messed up this year; they completely overlooked Rushmore (and, if you ask me, it wasn't an accident).

It maybe wasn't Best Picture material, but it certainly deserved a screenplay nod (instead of Elizabeth), and Bill Murray's absense from the ballot is a complete snub.

The entire mood of the film is one reason it is so good; at one point it's fun, and the next scene can turn serious and dramatic.

The cinematography gives the movie an important feeling, as well.

I hope Rushmore can overcome its' Oscar snubs, and be enjoyed by intelligent film goers.

Grade: A 
