Well I'll be damned, what a most excellent surprise. 

Not to be confused with the campy and far inferior 1988 remake starring ex-porn Star Traci Lords, this more recent attempt at remaking the 1950's drive-in schlockfest NOT OF THIS EARTH is a real gem and was quite possibly the best sci-fi flick of 1995. 

Once again, B-movie king Roger Corman is behind this effort (he directed the original) but this time he appears only in the role of executive producer. 

The rest of the crew and cast are relative unknowns. 

It seems criminal that the film was released direct to video in most countries, because it's an absolute must-see for sci-fi fans and a treat for anyone who enjoys decently acted and written thrillers with a kooky bent. 

The plot in brief. 

Paul Johnson (Michael York) is an alien posing as an eccentric millionaire who, though needing to kill people to live, is visiting Earth for far from selfish reasons. 

His race is dying of a mysterious blood disease and he desperately is trying to find a cure, the key of which lies in the blood of humans. 

He visits and soon puts under his spell the respected blood physician Dr. Rochelle, whom he hypnotises into doing secret research on his behalf. 

He also has the doctor convince smart and sexy nurse Amanda (Elizabeth Barondes) to move in with Johnson as his private nurse so as to give him the blood transfusions which he constantly requires. 

But before long, Amanda and Johnson's sleazy chauffeur release that Johnson is a lot more than just eccentric. 

I must admit, my first glimpse of the video cover for NOT OF THIS EARTH was not encouraging. 

British actor Michael York has appeared in some real stinkers in past few decades, a far cry from the quality fare of his younger days such as CABERAT (1972). 

But his performance here as an alien in human disguise is nothing short of outstanding. 

The weird twitches and bizarre modes of speech, the dapper clothes and cool spectacles, the unexpected pathos which he invests in his character. 

York is by turns hilarious, menacing and tragic. 

This is a tour-de-force and quite simply the best performance I've seen from him. 

And while obviously made on a modest budget, the film boasts enormous strengths. 

The casting is spot on, the acting is terrific and the script is intelligent, witty and consistently engaging, cleverly updating the original. 

The balance of horror and humour is just about perfect, a marked contrast to the earlier remake from 1988. 

The film doesn't drag for a second of its 90 minute running time thanks to tight editing and the sure hand of little-known director Terrance H. Winkless. 

And it doesn't matter one bit that the special effects are cheesy-this is schlock after all, even if it is high class schlock. 

In fact my only criticism of the film is that things get a tad weak towards the end. 

Tighter direction could have given the climax more urgency and a few of the characters act rather illogically given their life-threatening situation. 

But these are minor complaints. 

Just see it. 

NOT OF THIS EARTH is one of the biggest sci-fi surprises in years. 

And Michael York: in one cool swoop you've made yourself a B-movie legend, dude. 
