Bubbles Galore (1996)-Canada-Directed by Cynthia Roberts, Written by Cynthia Roberts and Georgina Knight, Produced by Greg Klymkiw, Cinematography by Harald Bachmann, Sound by Mindy Melons and Herwig Gayer, Music by Nicholas Stirling, Edited by Cynthia Roberts and Su Rynard, Sound Editing by Phillip Strong, Associate Producer: Remo Girlato.

Cast: Nina Hartley (Bubbles Galore), Tracy Wright (Vivian Klitorsky), Daniel MacIvor (Godfrey Montana), Shauny Sexton (Dory Drawers), Annie Sprinkle (God), Andrew Scorer (Buck Lister), Ed Fielding (Jimmy), Sky Gilbert (Rip), Peter Lynch (Dick), Britannee Bond (Starlet), Raven (Starlet), Sigrid Johnson (Starlet), Rosalba Martinni (Angel), Jessica Summers (Angel), Deborah DeMille (Angel), Thea Gill (Angel), Kirsten Johnson (Godfrey¹s Mother), Hillar Liitoja (The Journalist). 

Billed as a "feminist sex fantasy", this spirited, imaginative and thoroughly engaging film by the award-winning Canadian director Cynthia Roberts, is destined for extreme reactions.

Camille Paglia enthusiasts will no doubt champion this heart-felt tale of the title character Bubbles Galore (Nina Hartley), a porn-actress-turned-porn-producer who faces an uphill battle in her quest for sexual and economic independence.

However, those in the Andrea Dworkin camp, will no doubt loathe the film's decidedly pro-porn stance. 

Political considerations aside, however, this is a delightful lesbian love story as the film takes us on a whirlwind tour of Bubbles' romantic entanglements with a naive and virginal young porn starlet Dory Drawers (Shauny Sexton).

In the backdrop, however is Bubbles' loyal assistant Vivian Klitorsky (Tracy Wright) who pines longingly for the affections of her bubbly boss.

This femme-butch-femme triangle is what provides the film with considerable humanity *and* sensuality. 

In addition to the romantic aspects of the story, Bubbles is being stalked and terrorized by her ex-boyfriend Godfrey Montana (Daniel MacIvor), a slimy porn mogul who wishes to make her life as miserable as he can possibly make it.

When his plans to sabotage her latest film fall through, he snaps and psychotically decides to kill her. 

These proceedings are presided over by a most Heavenly presence.

God herself-yes, in the world of this film, God, is most definitely a "her"-and a chorus of undulating, scantily-clad angels, have their most watchful and lustful eyes on the events as they unfold, adding a lovely fantasy element to this frothy concoction. 

This bright, colourful and deliriously sexy film is chock-full of great performances.

Making her dramatic debut, after appearing in over 300 Triple X adult films, porn star Nina Hartley takes command of her role with considerable assurance and a screen presence which puts many other contemporary'straight' actresses to shame.

Hartley has overwhelming star power, and one wonders why other non-Triple-X producers haven't used her bountiful talents.

It is also interesting to note that Hartley appears in the recent release of "Boogie Nights", a film which takes a far more traditional doom-and-gloom approach to the porn industry. 

Making a cameo appearance in the role of God, former porn actress Annie Sprinkle, a true artist in her own right-gives the entire film an earthy, sensual glow and certainly solidifies and, by her very appearance, downright justifies the themes of the movie. 

The other performances are equally solid.

Daniel MacIvor appropriately chews up the scenery as the villainous Godfrey and Tracy Wright lends able support with her complex role.

Shauny Sexton, an erotic dancer and pin-up model, makes an impressive screen debut. 

Overall, Bubbles Galore is a film which wears its politics on its sleeve and very proudly indeed.

At one point, the title character declares that "instead of trying to save women from the sex trade, we should be working to ensure that the sex trade is a safe place for women to work". 

The direction by Cynthia Roberts is daring and subversive.

Roberts is not afraid to plunge the otherwise straight-ahead and simple narrative into extended and extremely avant-garde montage sequences.

The love scenes between the women are especially beautiful. 

The musical score by Nicholas Stirling blends cool jazz and lounge stylings, while the skilful cinematography by Harald Bachmann terrifically captures a blend of garish 70's porn and psychedelia. 

Amazingly, this film appears to have received a good deal of its funding from a variety of Canadian government cultural agencies.

This speaks volumes towards the importance of State funding for culture, as one cannot imagine such an entertaining, original and vital film being made in a traditional setting where conformity and formula rule the day. 

Bubbles Galore seems to be making the film festival rounds and does not, at present, appear to have any traditional distribution in place, so keep your eye on the alternative film listings for this one. 

It's funny, sexy and subversive.

And it shouldn't be missed. 
