Rated R for violence and gore, and for language. 

' Lake Placid ' is definately not your typical creature attacking people movie, ok so maybe it is, but this one is enjoyable, and clever. 

Actually it comes off more of a comedy than a horror film. 

Well the ending is kinda scary, but in most horror/comedies they are. 

I will admit that ' Lake Placid ' isn't an Oscar Worthy film, but it does come off as an inventive movie that is original and funny. 

Bridget Fonda plays a palentologist who after finding out her boyfriend is cheating, is forced to go to Lake Placid and investigate a tooth, after a man is bit in half. 

She gets there but really doesn't understand why she is there. 

Bill Pullman plays a man also investigating what happened, along with the sherriff and a rich croc obsessed man, they go out and find what is going on. 

What they find though isn't great. 

A huge and I mean huge crocodile is living in Lake Placid, over 150 years old, he has migrated here for who knows why. 

They have to fight against the croc and try to trap him so they can study him and see where he came from. 

Betty White plays a woman who lives on the shores of Lake Placid, and well you'll have to see the movie to find out. 

Her character is very funny and foul-mouthed, which is surprising to hear Betty spew words and phrases that are pretty bad, but funny. 

To me the movie came off as a spoof of Jaws. 

With the opening sequence, and some others, it is not original and is. 

When you watch this movie, you definately notice the smartness and cleverness of it. 

David E. Kelly who is the mastermind of The Practice and Ally McBeal, writes this movie with ease and surprisingly does a great job. 

The characters have smartmouths, two foul, and some great one-liners. 

But believe me, don't take ' Lake Placid ' too seriously or you won't like it. 

But it is a movie that can be enjoyed as a fun ' popcorn ' type movie. 

But I guess it rates above the ' popcorn ' rating. 

Sit back, watch the movie, laugh, scream, and whatever you want. 

Even though the movie is R, and I put violence and gore. 

There's really not that much gore, but what there is might seem kinda gross to some. 

' Lake Placid ' is a smart, clever, funny, and scary movie that I enjoyed and I think you will too. 
