Directed by Chris Menges; With William Hurt, Chris Cleary Miles, Keith Allen, Jane Horrocks, Nathan Yapp, Alan Cumming A wonderful little movie that is really interested in its characters and in its theme. 

The scene of "Second Best" is laid in Wales.

James (Chris Cleary Miles) is a 10-year-old boy who must live in a home because his father (Keith Allen) is in prison and his mother committed suicide.

James is a mentally unbalanced child.

He can't forget what happened in the past, and he dreams of living a happy life with his beloved father.

In the home he feels sadly and lonely. 

One day, a social worker (Alan Cumming) tells him of a person who wants to adopt him.

This person is Graham Holt (William Hurt).

Graham manages a post office and shop in a village.

He is a single and hasn't any real friends. 

His mother is dead, and his father is ill and will die.

Graham feels that he has been a disappointment to his parents.

There has never been real love between his parents and him.

Graham's monotonous life would get a new sense if he could adopt James. 

But Graham has not only to convince the institutions, but must also win the love of James.

James and Graham have to open theirselves.

They must get to know each other and learn to understand and trust the other person.

James and Graham aid each other to cope with their problems.

But will their relationship really have a future? 

"Second Best" is based on a novel by David Cook who also wrote the screenplay.

The film was directed by Chris Menges who had made his directing debut with the very good anti-Apartheid drama "A World Apart" (1987/88).

And maybe, "Second Best" is even a greater picture. 

This precise, richly detailed, sensitively and convincingly directed study about a special adoption treats its theme with great seriousness.

The breathtakingly intense film shows the necessity of human contact and communication.

William Hurt delivers an outstanding performance as Graham Holt.

And Chris Cleary Miles is remarkably convincing in the role of the boy.

The supporting cast is also fine (especially Jane Horrocks as Debbie, a social worker who is charged to examine Graham's living circumstances). 

"Second Best" is an underestimated masterpiece.

It's a pity that films like this one are made so seldom. 

I eagerly await Menges' next directorial work, "The Lost Son", which will star Daniel Auteuil. 
