THE RING is probably one of the creepiest movies I've seen in years. 

But then again, I've always had this phobia of Asian born horror films. 

I remember when I was a kid I was scared as hell with those green faced, long-haired floating ghosts donning their white gownseuuugh. 

THE RING really brings back those memories and its grips me long after the movie has ended. 

Unlike the horror films coming from the west, I'm pretty much used to the gore and visual effects, so much so, they become rather bland nowadays. 

There's really no scary movie from the west for a long time. 

If you have something in mind, please tell me. 

This Japanese flick is supposed to be based upon stories written by ` The Stephen King of Japan ', which is also (I heard) televised over the air in Japan. 

The film revolves around a mysterious videotape which will bring death for sure to the person who watches it, one week prior to viewing. 

A journalist and her husband, stupid enough, tests the so call ` urban legend ' and ends up having a week before she meets her doom. 

She and her husband then goes on a search for the origin of the videocassette, to get to the root of the whole curse with the hopes of freeing themselves. 

THE RING plays on the senses like no other horror film today. 

Visual subtlety, minimal music and an intriguing plot puts the audience within an aura of suspense throughout the entire film. 

Very well done indeed, especially for a film that does not have a single trace of violence and gore. 

Now, thats something budding horror film-maker wannabes should consider looking into. 

Just an idea of how visually powerful the film is, it is in Japanese and subtitled in Chinese; both of which, I can't understand at all (OK, I had a friend who gave me a gist prior to watching, but he revealed very little!). 

The twists in the plot, leading to an unforgettable climax (will definitely leave an impression on the audience) will have you at the edge of your seat. 

Gracefully shocking! 
