One of the most popular subplots in the entire science fiction genre is time travel. 

That concept, although many purists doubt its scientific credentials, spawned many interesting novels, comic books and films in the last century.

However, the big grand-daddy of time travels, H.G. Wells' novel THE TIME MACHINE, wasn't written with the intention to speculate about that concept or its consequences.

The author, H.G. Wells merely used it as a convenient way to express his socialist views and condemn the great social gap between the rich, idle capitalist class and impoverished labour. 

Whatever intentions Wells had, the future generations of readers were less impressed by his political messages.

Instead they were fascinated by the idea that the strange new worlds could be explored without traveling trough space.

The novel became one of great classics of science fiction genre and it natural for filmmakers to use it as inspiration.

First of them was George Pal, who in 1960 directed film which would, through the years, become genre classic of its own. 

The plot revolves about George (Rod Taylor), Victorian scientist who discovered the way to travel through the fourth dimension-time.

At the eve of the new 20th Century, George gathers his friends in order to present them his invention-machine that would enable him to travel through time.

They are skeptical, but that doesn't prevent George from carrying out his plan and traveling into the future.

At first, he travels slowly, seeing London as it changes through the years and three world wars.

Finally, after witnessing World War Three, he travels far into the future, hoping that he would cease to witness wars and senseless destructions.

When he finally reaches year 802,701 AD, at first glance, new world looks like utopia-humanity consists of young, beautiful, but idle Eloi, people who are fed, clothed and taken care of by unseen machines.

But, Weena (Yvette Mimieux), Eloi woman, tells George about another side of the coin-in the night, her people is preyed upon by Morlocs, humanoid creatures from the underworld. 

THE TIME MACHINE became the cinematic classic for the very same reason the novel became the classic in science fiction literature-the fantastic concept was a brilliant way for the authors to talk about burning issues and fears of their respective times.

For H.G. Wells it was frightening threat of class struggle; for George Pal and his screenwriter David Duncan, who produced the film in the worst days of the Cold War, it was the constant and more imminent threat of nuclear holocaust, underlined with the negative references to war throughout the movie.

Even the modern audience, which would be tempted to discard the film as old-fashioned, could find some values in its universal messages, fit for each era.

Compared with the genre films of today, THE TIME MACHINE is even better, and could serve as a good example how to make intelligent, thought-provoking films. 

Of course, since this is Hollywood product after all, THE TIME MACHINE delivers such concepts in the form of classic adventure, sometimes sacrificing plausibility for the sake of attractiveness.

For example, it is hard to imagine that someone would be able to understand perfect English million years in future; same is with Morlocs degenerating into mutant monsters, while Eloi remain undistinguished from the people of today.

Some of the final scenes, that turn Victorian scientist into an action superhero, are also rather unconvincing.

But, on the other hand, the film is very well directed, cleverly paced and the special effects, although definitely old-fashioned, are more than adequate for this kind of picture.

The acting is good, with Rod Taylor in one of his most remembered roles, while in the same time Alan Young brings rather memorable performance as George's trusted friend Filby.

Yvette Mimieux, who plays Weena, on the other hand, would be remembered more by her looks than by the complexity of her role.

However, despite all those flaws, THE TIME MACHINE is a very good piece of cinema, something that connoisseurs of quality science-fiction films sorely miss these days. 
