Me Tarzan... you happy viewer. 

For a minute there, I thought I was going to be groaning over the release of Disney's latest, another adaptation of a legend from the past. 

(Remember the pathetic Pocahontas? 

Yikes!) 

But guess what-Disney, a company that's been on a roll lately with animated films, strikes again with another wonderful tale that pleases the eyes as well as the inner kid in you. 

The story is pretty basic-Tarzan is left orphaned and a female gorilla who's lost her young adopts him into her group. 

As he matures into a much older man, Tarzan still wonders just why he's so much different from the clan, and then arrives a hunter, a professor, and the professor's lovely daughter, Jane-who meets Tarzan rather quickly after getting in trouble with a group of feisty babboons. 

From there, Tarzan faces tough choices-should he stay with the ones that he grew up with or go join his own kind in England? 

The voicework here is pretty top-level. 

Tony Goldwyn is very convincing as the Ape Man; Minnie Driver adds a delectable touch to the already-beautiful Jane; Nigel Hawthorne makes for a pretty nasty hunter voice; Rosie O ' Donnell keeps the laughs rolling as Tarzan's best ape friend Terk; and Wayne "Newman" Knight has his moments as a panicky elephant. 

The movie is superb throughout, mixing a great script with incredible computer-assisted visuals. 

When Tarzan tree-surfs (a twist that was added on top of the same ol ' vine swinging-and a great one, I might add), the camera twists and turns, allowing the trees all around to come to life vividly. 

I couldn't believe my eyes-Disney has come a long way since starting in a ballroom for Beauty and the Beast. 

And the music's not half bad, either. 

Fortunately, there's no ridiculous singing characters here, just a great set of songs by Phil Collins that perfectly fit the mood. 

There's some great action sequences here as well, including a wonderfully done chase between Tarzan, Jane, and the aforementioned babboons. 

But, of course, it's not all action-there's a message here as well that has to do with family. 

This is easily one of Disney's best animated films of the decade and it's one I can't wait to put in my home library... that is, if my VCR still works in the year 2000. 
