The following reviews are Copyright 1998 by Mathew Tschirgi and may not be reproduced in any form, written or electronically, without his direct permission-gained by e-mailing him at [1]magus@mindspring.com.

Any comments on these reviews may be sent to [ 2]magus@mindspring.com.

Thank you-now enjoy the reviews. 

This movie was one of the first American films done by director Paul Verhoeven.

He has done films since then such as BASIC INSTICT and STARSHIP TROOPERS.

All of his movies have one main thing in common-they don't skimp on the violence.

In a Verhoeven movie a guy doesn't get shot once in the chest-he gets shot many times all over the body. 

ROBOCOP takes place in Detroit in the future.

Things are pretty bleak.

The company OCP rules the city with an iron fist and is moving in on running the police force.

Peter Weller plays a cop who goes on a mission with his partner, Nancy Allen.

Peter Weller goes in an empty room alone and gets killed. 

Meanwhile OCP has a failed demonstration of a ED-209 model robot crime fighter.

Someone comes up with the idea of having a cyborg Robocop so they use any parts worth scalvaging from Peter Weller and make him into the Robocop the movie is titled after. 

The plot of this movie generally runs at a decent pace.

It drags a bit towards the end with Robocop wanting to finish everybody off, but plot twists keep it exciting.

The acting is bad from Weller when he is human, but very good when he is Robocop.

Nancy Allen does a decent job.

This movie doesn't leave itself open for a sequel exactly.

But they made one anyway. 

Enter... 

Detroit is in a more bleak state than it was in the first film.

OCP is trying to develop an improved 'Robocop 2' that will be more than a match for criminals.

Most of the police force is on strike due to OCP taking it over, leaving Robocop to be the police force in the city. 

This film is pretty bizaare.

It has ayear-old drug-lord who curses as much as Eddie Murphy, even MORE violence than the original, and some more humor. 

The plot of this movie is pretty large, almost too much so.

There are three or four plot lines weaving around that don't really match up.

The effects are still decent though. 

This sequel isn't more of the same really, just a darker version ROBOCOP dealing more with drugs than with armed criminals.

If you liked the first one, watch this.

But be dissapointed.

So later comes... 

OCP is now owned by a large Japanese company.

Robocop joins a band of rebels to counter-attack the evil Empire, I mean OCP.

The Japanese send a cyborg-ninja to deal with Robocop.

Among other things... 

This movie is easier to follow than the last one.

Which means the plot isn't quite as crowded.

This movie isn't anything special though.

Just more of Robocop blasting things up in a more kid-friendly way.

Really not reccomended. 


2. mailto:magus@mindspring.com. 
