The majority of scary movies signal the fact that a character is about to meet their demise with cheesy music, worn out dialogue such as "I'll be right back," or simply with the overall tone of the scene.

How about a classic John Denver song as a death signal for a change?

That's the kind of bursting originality that allows "Final Destination" to invade the viewer's mind, even days after seeing it, making one pause before ever entering a dark room, taking a shower, or even going to sleep.

The unique and horrifying thriller is the best thing to happen to the slasher genre since 1996's "Scream."

"Final Destination," directed by James Wong and penned by Jeffrey Riddick, Glen Morgan, and James Wong, the latter two being writers for the T.V. series "The X-Files," is a movie with wonderful ideas, and executes them effortlessly.

It's rare a film of this nature can grab an audience's attention these days, as the genre has seem to be completely worn out창`But "Final Destination" has more in store for one than one can imagine. 

Unlike "Halloween"'s Michael Myers or "Nightmare on Elm Street"'s Freddy Kruger, "Final Destination"'s killer is of the supernatural, the dark one himself, death.

The intriguing premise is as follows; A portion of a senior class is set to travel by air to Paris for their class trip.

After boarding the plane, one of the students, Alex Browning (Devon Sawa) dreams of their plane exploding into flames just after takeoff, killing everyone on board. 

Once waking up, Alex gets himself and six others off of that plane, all of who seem to be rather confused by the entire happening.

Shortly after their departure, the plane takes off, and guess what; It blows up in middair.

Now, Alex, and fellow survivors, who consist of friend Clear Waters (Ali Larter), enemy Carter (Kerr Smith), Carter's girlfriend Terry (Amanda Detmer), the goofy Billy (Sean William Scott) and his brother Tod (Chad Donella), and teacher, Ms. Valerie Lewton (Kristen Cloke), are in extreme danger, as it seems they have cheated death by getting off of that plane, and now death wants them.

The number of survivors starts to peel back quite quickly as death goes around offing those who got off the plane창`But who is next, and how will death get them? 

"Final Destination" is a film that is unbearably suspenseful; always making the viewer frantic, as death will strike in the most unlikely of times.

John Denver's "Rocky Mountain High" being played pretty much warrants another death창`Everyone on that plane learned the hard way.

Although it's usually given whose life will be taken next, the intensity and unpredictability of the film never fades, because you don't know when death is coming.

Like the characters in the movie, I was constantly nervous and shaky during "Final Destination".

The slightest noise or movement nearby would send me a mile into the air창` And yes, the film is that intense. 

The cast is surprisingly effective and up to par; the best ensemble in this genre since "Scream."

The characters have multi-dimensional personalities for a change, and for the most part, you highly sympathize with them once death starts to come their way.

Devon Sawa and Ali Larter are the main focus of the film, and both actors follow up their well written characters with even better performances, that, like the "Scream" movies did for their cast, will launch them into superstardom.

Kerr Smith and Kristen Cloke are also impressive, although the two don't posses as much screen time as the leads. 

"Final Destination" is one exhilarating, exciting ride.

Any age should be able to enjoy the complexity and eeriness of the film, and should find an edge to it that most slasher films lack.

For the blood loving moviegoer, "Destination" contains buckets of blood, guts, and all that good stuff. 

"Final Destination" is a film that is destined to become a cult classic among horror fans, and a sleeper hit at the box office.

Hands down to the first film in years that has actually scared me.

By scare, I don't mean making me jump, or making me wonder if I'm in danger, but by scare I mean a film that stays locked in your mind, absorbing you, leaving one question that's constantly on your mind: Is death coming for me? 

The Bottom Line: Make "Final Destination" your destination. 

