John Carpenter directed this stylish and gory vampire flick to which has it's good side and it's bad.

It's held up by some good performances and dazzling special effects leading up to an ending that's pretty satisfying. 

James Woods gives an outstanding performance that almost covers up the movie.

The good side: some neat scenes of vampires and violence.

The bad: No scares.

Yes that's right, even though being directed by one of horror's most cherished directors, 'Vampires' is the least bit scary, if not at all. 

James Woods stars as Jack a vampire hunter out to stop the plans of the 'master' vampire Valek played by Thomas Ian Griffith whom wants vampires to walk in the daylight. 

Daniel Baldwin plays his sidekick Montoya, a wise-cracking guy who really isn't that funny.

In the opening scene Jack along with Montoya and the team of vampire hunters, find an abandoned house to which vampire occupy.

Of course we all know sunshine kills vampires, and that is just how they kill these vampires: hooking them to ropes and dragging them outside letting them burn to death. 

After throwing a party for what happened, the vampires that did not die come back to trash it.

They kill almost all of Jack's team, leaving only a few alive.

Sheryl Lee plays a prostitute Katrina who was bitten by Valek, but not yet turned into a vampire.

She is rescued by Jack and flees with them on their search for Valek.

They have to fight they're way against vampires, leading up to a finale that is well-done with great special effects. 'Vampires' definately could have been done better.

The make-up, special effects and story are first rate, but there is no scares or terror that the film could have had.

It to me had more humor than horror, almost being compared to 'Fright Night' with the mix of violence and comedy.

John Carpenter does a great job of directing this film.

He eases through some tough times and saves the flaws, which are noticeable but forgettable.

The script is clever and funny, with many lines that make us laugh out loud. 

I much enjoyed 'Vampires' with a few exceptions.

It's one of those films you see but don't take to heart.

You enjoy the time you spent and go on.

The recently released 'Psycho' is the same way, it's not as good as you'd hope but it is fun and entertaining. 'Vampires' is a good horror flick with no scares but plenty of other content to please the viewer. 


