One of the best movies I've ever seen.

I'd heard extremely good things about this movie, and though the previews didn't really intrigue that much, it was a movie I'd been anticipating for a few months now.

For some reason I'm not sure of-this movie was not that big a sucess over in the U.S. It was a definite hit with the critics, but didn't exactly set any box office records.

After viewing this incredibly well directed, written and acted movie, I can't help but wonder-why? 

The strength of this film is it's gritty realism.

The main characters are all human with individual flaws, no stereo-type hollywood heroes.

You may not agree with many of their actions in the movie or their approach to life, but that is what makes it so real.

I had expected this movie to be more of a drama than a thriller, but I was mistaken.

Even the interrogation scenes moved at such a pace so that it felt just as thrilling as any car chase.

And the ending...... whoa. 

I've never seen a movie in my life where everyone in it acts brilliantly. 

The three male leads-Guy Pearce, Kevin Spacey and Russell Crowe are all just terrific.

The 'Best Actor' Oscar talk surrounding this film should have netted one of them a statue, but there is one problem there.

How could they have chosen between these three actors?

There is no way I could look at this film and say one of them was better than the other two.

It's impossible. 

Kim Bassinger's performance is also a revelation.

I'd never been a big fan of hers before and always thought she was, well... what's the word-a twinky?

That impression has changed, as she complemented Crowe and Pearce perfectly. 

The depth to the story and characters is truly astounding.

No cardboard characters here.

The plot is full of twists and turns and some very clever sequences.

Pearce's interogation of three seperate suspects is nothing short of brilliant. 

I really can't fault this movie at all.

I was so glad to see fellow Australian's Pearce and Crowe star in such a breathtaking movie.

I had been very familiar with Russell Crowe beforehand from his many Australian films, but had not seen much of Guy Pearce.

I intend to change this next time I visit the video store:) 
