I suppose an argument could be made that Toy Story is one of those films that didn't need a sequel.

Beloved by kids and their parents, respected equally by mainstream America and geekish movie buffs, that first movie remains a landmark of recent history, the one that burst open the possibilities of computer animation and demonstrated through wild invention and giddy chutzpah just how complacent the Disney animation machine had become in cranking out fluffy razzle-dazzle entertainment full of formula storytelling and banal songwriting. 

As someone who doesn't believe sequels are necessarily a bad thing (granted, they usually are a bad thing, but that's because they're made for the wrong reasons), I had to wonder what in the world they were thinking.

Fortunately, Disney claimed to have been so knocked-out by early animation tests that they let Pixar go full-speed ahead with a theatrical sequel.

Lucky thing, too--like the first movie, this one is a joy to behold on the big screen, and technically, it improves on its predecessor on just about every level. 

(From a business standpoint, the end credits show that the new creations are copyrighted by Pixar, while the previous film's elements are shared between Pixar and Disney, a sign of the production house's new cachet in Hollywood.) 

Visually, the main shortcoming of this fully computer-generated movie is that human figures are still rendered relatively poorly, making them look a little creepy.

Fortunately, that eerie unreality fits in perfectly with the perspective of the movie, where the secret world of toys is more immediate, and arguably more attractive, than the world of the humans who surround them. 

Sheriff Woody (voiced by a note-perfect Tom Hanks), the longtime favorite among Andy's toys who was challenged in the previous go-round by the arrival of flashy-new-thing action figure Buzz Lightyear (Tim Allen), suffers an injury early in the film, when Andy tugs too hard on his arm and pulls a seam apart, revealing the stuffing inside.

This accident catalyzes some uneasieness among the toys, who know too well that a broken toy is often a forgotten toy, and a forgotten toy is one that loses its reason for existence. 

That this film manages to turn a box marked "25 cents" into a symbol of doom, or to make its screed against the retention of collectible toys by wrongheaded profiteers fuel for a metaphysical dilemma, is a testament to its skill at metaphor, seamlessly translating the hopes and fears of our real world into that of the toys.

Operating on this level of abstraction, Toy Storytackles some mighty heavy issues without once preaching or veering into pretentiousness.

(The worst I can say is that Randy Newman seems to have reserved his sappiest lyric in years for Sarah McLachlan, who stops the movie cold by singing it at just about the halfway mark.) 

Sometimes I think Toy Storytries too hard.

There's somewhat less of the seat-of-the-pants loopiness that energized the first film, allowing it to surprise and excite on a near-constant basis, and more philosophizing about toys, collectors, the nature of happiness and the meaning of life.

While that leads to fewer bellylaughs, it does make way for more elaborate humor and an uncommonly ambitious reflexivity that asks the toys to consider their own status as commodities that move in and out of fashion.

(Just don't ask why Andy's favorite toy is based on a TV series that was canceled in 1957.) 

Where else in mainstream movies do you get such an awesome moment as the one where Buzz arrives at Al's Toy Barn to find it stocked to the gills with his doppelgangers, Buzz Lightyear action figures?

Forget the self-congratulatory science fiction of The Matrix--this is a fundamental mind-bender for Buzz, and the audience shares his humility and wonderment at the sight.

Here, as in the roughly concurrent scene where Woody watches tapes of the Howdy Doodyish children's TV show that originated his character, we see our protagonists come face-to-face with God.--------------------------------------------------------------Directedby John Lasseter, Colin Brady, Ash Brannon, and Lee Unkrich Written by Lasseter, Brannon, Peter Docter, Andrew Stanton, Rita Hsaio, Doug Chamberlain, and Chris Webb Cinematography by Sharon Calahan Starring (voices) Tom Hanks, Tim Allen, and Joan Cusack USA, 1999 Theatrical aspect ratio: 1.85:1--------------------------------------------------------------
