"Bowfinger" 

The last Steve Martin film I saw, The Spanish Prisoner, was a very different approach for the comic actor. 

As a millionaire leading a massive conspiracy in order to rob "a process" from a clueless businessman, Martin's character did it all for money. 

In his most recent movie, Bowfinger, Martin plays yet another con man except this time he does it to succeed in the film industry. 

He wants to direct a successful picture that will force people to remember his name, that will make him more popular at the parties, and, most importantly, that will cause Fed Ex to deliver important business packages to his front door. 

Playing the title role, Martin is once again the good guy; the one we cheer for to complete his low budget action movie. 

This con man is very likeable for some reason, even though he is doing the same exact thing as the malicious Jimmy Del from The Spanish Prisoner. 

Maybe the message is that, in Hollywood, to win over the trust and friendship of others, you have to be a little evil. 

Bowfinger is a very clever comedy with great performances from its two stars. 

Martin, who also wrote the screenplay, is perfect as a jerk with a conscience and Eddie Murphy does his best "Peter Sellers" in two different, but equally hilarious, roles; one as a big time move star and the other as his nerdy, Burger King employee brother. 

The story follows aging and failing director/producer Bobby Bowfinger as he makes one last attempt to become a respected member of his field by creating a B-action movie called Chubby Rain. 

In order to attract actors and crew members, Bowfinger promises them that hot shot actor Kit Ramsey will star in the movie. 

The only problem is that Kit refuses to be in it. 

But this won't stop the aggressive Bowfinger. 

He is so determined to complete his film that he decides to put Kit in it without even telling him. 

He has his actors approach Kit on the streets of Los Angeles in character with a hidden camera filming the footage. 

Will Bowfinger be able to make his film? 

Or will Kit Ramsey discover what exactly is going on? 

Bowfinger is a very cartoon-like movie that pokes fun at Hollywood and its famous residents while simultaneously holding a very solid story line. 

The only area where the film really lacks is the cameo department. 

This is the kind of movie that cameos are all about, it is always funny to see actors/directors/producers making fun of themselves or co-workers especially in a playful movie such as this. 

Besides the very repetitive and superflous ending, Bowfinger is a joy to watch. 

If you take a movie like this seriously then you will never enjoy it. 

If you accept the incredulous plot and the extreme caricatures of real entertainment figures, the movie is great fun. 
