Along his carreer, Mel Gibson has collected several successes, not only from an economic point of view but also from an artistic point of view.

For all that, I think no one could guess the skills and abilities now disclosed in BRAVEHEART. 

The australian actor decided to produce and direct a film about Sir William Wallace, a popular Scotch hero of the 13th Century, where he would also perform the principal role.

Accepting so huge challenge, Mel Gibson run the risk of stain all his work of years, with a suppoosed failure, just to see recognized, by everyone, all his potentialities and, that way,to consolidate his position in Hollywood.

It was, definitely, an enormous risk but I'm sure Mel knew exactly well what he was going to face. 

BRAVEHEART is, in fact, a magnificent and magisterial film.

For three hours we are completely absorbed by the narrative's rhyitm which never gives place to a single moment of monotony or uninterest. 

The William Wallace's story is the story of so many others brave liberty's defenders who fought and gave the life for that essential value, along the centuries.

Seeing himself and his people victims of injustices and violent repression, William Wallace dares to face the powerful Edward I, King of England, in a war by the autonomy of Scotland.

As the victories succeed the number of fighters with Wallace goes growing up.

His courage and inteligence are admired by everyone, including the princess Isabelle of Wales, wife of Edward's son.

However, William Wallace was also surrounded by enemies and some of them were closer than he thought.

BRAVEHEART may not be an historically corrected movie but the nature of its message make us think about the importance that we give to Liberty, nowadays. 

Mel Gibson directs with a lot of brilliancy a brilliant cast.

Patrick McGoohan has a very nice performance as Edward I, the King Longshank.

The scene when he waits for the death and loses his voice is really good.

Sophie Marceau, as princess Isabelle, has along the movie no more than fifteen minutes of performance but Mel Gibson gave to those minutes such a very special treatment that princess Isabelle soon becomes one of the major characters in BRAVEHEART.

I also liked the performances of Angus MacFadyen, as Robert the Bruce, and, of course, Mel Gibson, as William Wallace. 

However, I think this time the Mel Gibson's work as director was much better than his work as actor. 

The excellent music composed by James Horner is another thing that helps BRAVEHEART to be the success that it really is.

When we join that music to the beautiful Scotch landscapes, view by the camera of John Toll, then we realize all the beauty of this film.

BRAVEHEART is, in my opinion, one of the best movies of 1995! 

I've heard some people saying that Mel Gibson is gonna be a new David Lean. 

For now, let's see if BRAVEHEART equalizes theoscars of LAWRENCE OF ARABIA. 

It won't be easy!

It's gonna be one more challenge for Mel Gibson. 
