"The Spanish Prisoner" 

From my first viewing, I noticed that David Mamet's film was intense and clever at times but boring and cliched at other times especially at the beginning. 

From my second viewing however, I noticed that Mamet's script was actually a masterpiece. 

The Spanish Prisoner, like The Usual Suspects or Chinatown, begs for the viewer's complete attention. 

Miss a scene or even a small detail, and you could miss the meaning of the entire film. 

Also like the aforementioned films, it rewards its viewer for paying attention by delivering a surprising and memorable ending. 

Mamet is success doing again what he once tackled in 1987 when he wrote and directed House of Games. 

Like his past gem, The Spanish Prisoner fools the audience as much (or even more) than the victim. 

Because we were deceived just like the victim, we feel a strong attachment to the main character and consequently are more interested in the film. 

Mamet has the talent of not completely ending a film gift wrapped, but rather leaving some ambiguity towards the end. 

The power that he has in forcing the viewer to determine who the good guys and bad guys are once the film is over, without giving a right answer, is unique and ingenious. 

The Spanish Prisoner will leave you seriously puzzled and intrigued. 

After seeing the film again, I noticed that the details Mamet uses are so incredibly accurate it is frightening. 

His direction is very subtle; as he leaves so many clues explaining what is going on and who is who but it is still very difficult to tell what exactly is happening even if you see all of them, or think you see all of them. 

The story follows a young up and coming businessman, Joe Ross, (Campbell Scott) who has just created a mysterious and lucrative "process" that everyone is trying to get their hands on. 

Soon Ross does not know who he can trust or who is after his "process." 

Through his journey Ross meets a number of mysterious characters: The rich and popular Jimmy Dell, a secretary who has a huge crush on Ross, and Ross' boss Mr. Klein. 

Played by Steve Martin, Rebecca Pidgeon, and Ben Gazarra respectively, the supporting cast is very solid especially Martin, who deserved an Oscar nomination for his commanding and manipulative role. 

The most interesting character in the film, though, was Campbell Scott's Joe Ross. 

The character's transformation from an ingenuous and polite rookie to a paranoid veteran is very apparent and justifiable. 

David Mamet's script is so interesting because we know people don't actually talk like the characters in the film, yet we feel so connected to some of them. 

His beguiling style could fool any viewer up for the challenge. 

This is a must see, for those interested in solving a complex puzzle of a movie. 
