[1]http://twowebmasters.cjb.net (OPENING NOVEMBER 16th, 1999!) 

Assume nothing.

The phrase is perhaps one of the most used of the 1990's, as first impressions and rumors are hardly ever what they seem to be.

The phrase especially goes for Oscar Novak, an architect who is the main focus of Three To Tango, a delightful, funny romantic comedy about assumptions and being yourself. 

Novak (Matthew Perry), a shy, clumsy, Chicago based architect, along with openly gay partner, Peter Steinberg (Oliver Platt), fights for projects day in and day out.

One of these is the job of restoring a popular building for Charles Newman (Dylan McDermott), a rich, well-known businessman.

Charles immediately takes a liking to Oscar, as he enjoys his personality and sense of humor.

Seeing Oscar as someone he could trust, Charles asks him to watch his girlfriend, an unpredictable, adventurous girl named Amy Post (Neve Campbell), who makes a living by blowing glass.

Charles wants to know who she talks to, what she does, and where she goes.

The point?

To make sure she's not seeing someone else, of course.

Oscar gladly takes the job, and meets Amy at an art show of hers, and sparks fly between the two from the get go.

Oscar feels he has found the one meant for him, and he is content with the idea of being with Amy.

Well, another popular phrase of the 90's is "All good things must come to an end," and this stays true for Oscar as well. 

Charles walks in on Amy and Oscar having a drink one night, as Oscar and Amy have become great friends, but he doesn't seem to mind.

Why is this?

He thinks Oscar is gay.

He's not afraid to share this with him either.

Oscar stands in shock after the words, "I swear if you weren't gay Oscar, I'd have to kill you," are muttered flamboyantly from Charles' mouth.

The word spreads instantly through town.

Will Oscar "come out" of his supposed gayness, or will he tell everyone that he isn't?

One would immediately think he would deny the fact, but numerous occurrences come to Oscar, which result in the fact that if he denies the fact, he could lose his job with Charles. 

Matthew Perry doesn't escape his character as Chandler on the already classic T.V. comedy "Friends," as both Oscar Novak and Chandler are clueless, shy, and sensitive.

Nonetheless, Perry is hilarious here, and shows that he can handle drama, as obviously, his character suffers quite a bit here. 

It's wonderful to see Neve Campbell outside of a horror movie, (She was the star of Screamand 2, and the upcoming Scream 3) as she handles comedy superbly here.

Her voice, smile, and personality are more than perfect for romantic comedies-Stay with this genre, Neve.

Neve is delightful as her conflicted character, who feels love for Oscar, but knows, based on rumors, that he is gay.

As usual, Campbell is likable as her likable character. 

Unlike the other two leads here, Dylan McDermott is flat in his dialogue, and is never convincing.

When his character his present, McDermott sets a dull tone to the scene with his horrible acting.

Stick to the T.V. Drama, The Practice, Dylan. 

The major weak spot in Three To Tango is the direction of Damon Santostefano.

No originality or technique is used whatsoever.

Three To Tango is lucky that the script is so edgy and that Perry and Campbell are wonderful in comedy, or else the film would have been a disaster, as it is just plain boring to look at. 

Three To Tango is a film done many times before, as the plot is suspiciously close to 1998's The Object of My Affection, but the plot has never been completed so well.

Three To Tango's script, written by Rodney Patrick Vaccaro and Aline Brosh McKenna is fun, fast, and funny, delivering not only original, hilarious gay jokes (not your run of the mill material), but a certain snappiness in the dialogue between characters that always keeps you smiling.

Unlike last summer's South Park: Bigger, Longer, and Uncut and 1997's In & Out, Three To Tango is a comedy in which the gay element is not crude or vulgar.

The script is wise to take this route, as gays can't (I don't think so, anyway) be offended by this light, playful comedy.

(To prove this, a gay couple was in the audience who were laughing constantly.)

Three To Tango's climax is a hilarious, clever scene that is pure irony based on the outcome of most romantic-mistaken identity comedies.

Three To Tango is a gem. 

The Bottom Line: Three To Tango is a light, sharp, snappy romantic comedy with a superb ending, and great stars.

One of the better romantic comedies of 1999. 


