A cinematic version of one of John Irving's novels is always cause for celebration even if, as in the case of "Simon Birch," the treatment is merely "suggested by," rather than strictly based on, the book. 

Suggested means that Irving, author of the acclaimed "The World According to Garp," sold the rights to his novel "A Prayer for Owen Meany" to the Disney machine for $ 1 million, but wouldn't grant them permission to use either the title or any of the character names.

That's an odd decision--Irving claims it's to protect both himself and the novel--but it's one that doesn't unduly harm the finished product. 

Irving's books are rich and complex works, full of intriguing, colorful characters.

"A Prayer for Owen Meany" is no exception; it tells the story of an unusual boy--called Simon Birch in the film version--who is uncommonly small in stature and possesses a high-pitched falsetto voice, "like strangled mice."

Simon believes himself to be "God's instrument," placed on this earth to somehow effect God's plan. 

Simon is played by Ian Michael Smith, who suffers from a rare enzyme disorder known as Morquio Syndrome which, among other things, prevents bones, ligaments, and joints from developing normally.

Smith's debilitating disease makes him an obvious physical choice for "Simon Birch"; however, the producers unwisely favored form over function--Smith's acting abilities are limited at best. 

Another drawback is that in the book, Simon's condition is described the way Irving describes any of his characters--in careful, loving detail.

Watching "Simon Birch," however, creates a different feeling altogether; the audience is forced into a voyeuristic relationship with the character, surely something Irving would not have intended. 

Simon himself tends to be too cute and irritating, a combination of Smith's rookie status as an actor and the precocious one-liners he's forced to deliver, courtesy Mark Steven Johnson, the film's director and screenwriter. 

Fortunately, Simon Birch isn't the real star of the film that bears his name.

Simon is more of a catalyst, allowing his co-stars to shape the story, and the actors who fill those roles to turn in outstanding supporting performances, saving the film from an obsequious, manipulative destiny. 

First and foremost is Joseph Mazzello ("Jurassic Park"), who is nothing less than remarkable as Simon's best friend, Joe.

Mazzello turns in a wonderfully layered performance for ayear old, ripe with laughter, pain, and tears; he is certainly an emerging talent.

Ashley Judd positively beams in her role as Rebecca, Joe's single mother, and Oliver Platt is warm and tender as her boyfriend, Ben.

David Strathairn and Jan Hooks play the town's reverend and Sunday school teacher respectively and their contributions uphold the high standards set by the others. 

There's even a surprising yet effective uncredited cameo performance from... 

Well, that would be telling. 

Perhaps "suggested by" the novel is the appropriate way to go after all, since "Simon Birch" only focuses on one chapter, one year, of Simon's extraordinary life.

The film also changes the book's ending to one that is more melodramatic, yet necessary given Simon's lot. 

The flavor of Irving's original novel remains, however--the passions, friendships, and insecurities that come with a change of seasons to the little community of Gravestown, Maine, and the engaging oddballs, both big and small, who reside there. 
