****(out of 4) Directed by Peter Jackson Starring Michael J. Fox, Trini Alvarado, Dee Wallace Stone, Jeffery Combs, Peter Dobson, John Astin, Chi McBride, R. Lee Ermey Review-Peter Jackson's The Frighteners has received some notice for setting the record for most computer effects ever in a movie, and still coming in at the extremely cheap $30 million price tag.

But for those who were dismayed by this year's blockbusters like Twister and Independence Day, The Frighteners has much more to offer than special effects.

And for those worried wether or not Peter Jackson would compromise to Hollywood you can rest easily. 

The Frighteners is as far removed from Hollywood as a high-profile movie can get. 

Michael J. Fox stars as Frank Bannister, a con artist who can speak to ghosts.

He uses this ability to set up a scam in a small town where his ghost buddies scare the hell out of people, then he comes and pretends to get rid of them.

This is how he has made a living ever since his wife died in a car crashyears ago. 

Frank's latest customers are a young couple, played by Trini Alvarado and Peter Dobson.

When Dobson ends up dead, Alvarado starts to take an interest in Fox.

But Dobson's spirit is still around as he refuses to beleive he's dead.

This leads to a very awkward and amusing dinner date between Fox and Alvarado, with Dobson tagging along as a ghost. 

Things start getting complicated for Fox when he is accused for a series of murders taking place in the town.

Fox sees someone named The Soul Collector crushing the heart of the victims, but noone else can see that.

So when Fox shows up to try and save each victim, naturally people suspect he is the killer.

Fox sees that Alvarado is next on The Soul Collector's hit list, and the last half hour of the movie deals with Fox's attempts to save her from this evil spirit. 

There are many wonderful twists and turns in the screenplay written by Peter Jackson and Frances Walsh.

The movie starts off as a black comedy, and ends up a horror-action film.

The mix between these genres are perfect.

No laughs are sacrificed in the name of horror, and vice versa.

One point of contention might be a lackluster score by Danny Elfman.

But that hardly seems like a flaw when you have such a diverse cast all in top form.

Michael J. Fox delivers one of his best performances to date as a man who hides the sorrow of his wife's death, and then is forced to confront this later on. 

Alvarado, looking like Andie MacDowell, makes a great frightened, tough, and smart heroine.

And Jeffery Combs, as a paranoid FBI agent, is brilliantly bizaare. 

The Frighteners never once feels like it is running long.

The first hour is as funny as any comedy this year, and the last half hour is as thrilling as any of the big budget blockbusters.

This movie is probably what Casper would've looked like if David Lynch directed it.

It's easily the best film of the year, so far. 
