Starring: Bill Paxton, Billy Bob Thornton & Bridget Fonda Written by: Scott B. Smith Directed by: Sam Raimi Billy Bob Thornton, who had a sudden rise to fame with 1996's Sling Blade after spending years as a virtually unknown actor and writer, is becoming one of the most versatile-and most accomplished-American actors around at the moment.

As Jacob, the simple but at times very bright loser brother of Bill Paxton's Hank, Thornton gives a performance which should leave an indelible mark on all but the most hardened viewers. 

Three men, Hank (Paxton), Jacob (Thornton) and their friend Lou (Brent Briscoe) stumble upon a plane wreck which, upon closer inspection, yields a rotting corpse and a bag full of money.

Jacob and Lou want to pocket the cash.

Hank, the smarter-and perhaps more naive-of the three, insists on leaving the money for the authorities to find.

Eventually, they agree to keep the cash safe until the plane is found, and then split the money three ways.

Things start going wrong, though, with greed and violence weaving their ways through their plan.

Disaster is sure to strike. 

Director Sam Raimi, of The Evil Dead and Darkman fame, has made an excellent and thought-provoking film, worlds away from the comic horror films which made his name.

While there are a couple of moments which might remind one of his earlier work, Raimi has made an intelligent and mature departure which will hopefully be a sign of even greater films to come. 

Scott B. Smith's screenplay, based on his novel (which I haven't read) is a fine example of escalating tension.

While it does remind one of Danny Boyle's Shallow Grave without the abundance of black humour, it keeps the drama that should really be a part of such a story on morality, or the lack thereof, found in a film with this subject matter.

Alar Kivilo's cinematography reminds one of Joel and Ethan Coen's Fargo, with the bleak, snowy landscape almost becoming another character.

Danny Elfman also does well with his moody, finely-written score. 

If there's a flaw in the film, it's that it goes on for just a little too long.

Just when we think that they are about to wrap things up, Raimi and Smith decide to let the film go on a little further.

While this isn't really a bad thing, it did become a little frustrating at times (this may have been due to the fact that I had consumed a large Sprite beforehand).

The performances are excellent, with the usually annoying Paxton in fine form and Bridget Fonda giving a scene-stealing turn as Hank's scheming wife. 

This is an excellent showcase for Thornton's fine skills as an actor and a great change in direction for Raimi, who could very well have a career ahead of him as an accomplished director of dramatic films.

Fingers crossed, though, that this doesn't stop him from making another Evil Dead sequel. 
