Warped media tycoon Elliot Carver (Jonathan Pryce) plots to start a war between Britain and China in order to boost ratings by using a ' stealth ship ' to fire a captured British missile at the city of Beijing. 

Super-agent James Bond (Pierce Brosnan) uses trick gadgets, pluck, and charm in order to foil Carver's scheme. 

This time Bond teams up with top female agent Wai Lin from China (Michelle Yeoh). 

The film contains fights, chases, gadgets, and comedic moments. 

Opinion: It does not have a casino scene or a ski scene, but TOMORROW NEVER DIES is nevertheless a solid, enjoyable Bond movie. 

It neither stands out nor disappoints. 

In old Bond movies Bond sometimes teamed up with American CIA agent Felix Leiter. 

TOMORROW NEVER DIES introduces a new character in the form of Chinese agent Wai Lin. 

Like Leiter's character, Wai Lin would be a sure bet for a cameo in a later Bond movie. 

Stars: Michelle Yeoh was born a Leo in the Western zodiac in the year of the Tiger on the Asian astrology calendar. 

I don't believe in horoscopes. 

But at an airport I once browsed an astrology book with a section on Leo Tigers (LTs). 

"Leo Tigers prefer enough solitude to grow at their own pace."
LTs are unbelievably courageous when facing adversity. 

The LT is also classy, and has an excellent sense of refinement, but she sees herself as an adventurer, and prefers freedom of movement rather than flashy status symbols. 

This person loves family and friends with a fierce loyalty. 

She delights in siblings, nephews, nieces and extended family--but she must have her personal freedom to come and go as she pleases. 

Sometimes annoyance at injustice drives her to take up one or two causes. 

In love life, the LT has an unfortunate mental block against committing to any partner who is less powerful than she. ""
In real life, Michelle Yeoh is Asia's top female star. 

Like Jackie Chan, she does her own stunts. 

She was born in Malaysia--a country of many languages--and her primary language (the language she speaks in her sleep) is English. 

She was taught Malay in school, and learned Cantonese from bilingual parents. 

As an athlete Michelle represented Malaysia internationally. 

She enjoyed squash, diving, swimming, and rugby. 

She studied ballet at the Royal Academy of Dance in London, but switched to drama after a spinal injury. 

In 1983 she won the Miss Malaysia pageant--without really intending to, since a family member had entered her in the contest without her knowledge. 

Notoriety from the contest led eventually to a movie career as an action heroine. 

Michelle has survived a divorce with Asian retail tycoon Dickson Poon; a nearly fatal stunt accident falling from a freeway overpass which put her in the hospital for three months, and; a retirement from the movies. 

Her comeback from retirement, SUPERCOP (1992) became the top grossing film in Asia that year. 

It is not clear what Michelle's martial arts style is, but it may be a theatrical version of wing chun. 

Of her character Wai Lin in TOMORROW NEVER DIES, Michelle says, "Wai Lin is the first Bond Girl who is on a par with Bond, someone who can match up with him mentally and physically." 

My own opinion is that casting Michelle Yeoh as agent Wai Lin was an excellent choice. 
