From the man who presented us with HENRY: THE PORTRAIT OF A SERIAL KILLER comes a wild tale set within the elite and white trash of Florida's South Coast. 

Guidance Counselor (Dillon) is accused of raping one of his students. 

She happens to be the daughter of one of the wealthiest women in Florida. 

The counselor is brought to court on the charges, as another white trash girl (Campbell), also joins the rape finger-pointing club. 

As the story unfolds, we find that many things aren't exactly as they seem (that's as much as I could say without ruining anything). 

Good little flick that slows down at certain points, and runs a tad long, but generates enough twists and turns to keep most people interested throughout. 

Mind you, I could see many people not liking it because it takes "one too many" twists and turns, but hey, I happen to like that kind of thing. 

And besides, the twists and turns in this movie managed to remain within the realm of believability (or scathingly close to), and even "explained" many of its turns with a showcase of missed scenes during the credit crawl at the end of the film (DO NOT leave the theatre before you see the credits... it really does clear up some stuff!!). 

Other than that, the acting was good, with Campbell transforming her "good girl stereotypical" role into a pot-smoking, goth-looking white trash chick out for a good time. 

Denise Richards (from STARSHIP TROOPERS fame) solidifies herself as Hollywood's jelly-donut pinup girl of the moment, and proves that all breast implants  lead to lawsuits. 

Bacon is solid, and so is Dillon (while continuing to prove his inability to age to the whole wide wondering world!!). 

Sprinkle the story with a bunch o ' shots of alligators peeking through the swamp waters, Bacon showing the world the size of his ding-dong (do we really need to see this??), a couple of lesbian kissing scenes, and a menage-a-trois, and you've got yourself a decent time at the movie theatre. 

On the down side, the soundtrack was not as prominent (or slick) as I thought it would be, and Theresa Russell (real name: Theresa Paup) seems to have lost her way in every which way possible.... ooooh, I almost forgot Bill Murray's exquisite role as the down-trodden lawyer who agrees to defend Dillon in court. 

Murray actually added that extra little spice of humour that allowed this film to affirm its position as a quirky little noirish tale of sex, greed and mystery. 

Little Known Facts: Neve Campbell specified a non-nudity clause in her contract (she's also born in Guelph, Ontario... go hoser!) 

Director John McNaughton says he deleted a scene that would have shown Matt Dillon and Kevin Bacon showering together, as it was gratuitous. 

Kevin Bacon plays in a band with his brother, called The Bacon Brothers, is married to actress Kyra Sedgwick, and has a game based on him called "Six Degrees of Kevin Bacon".
