Richard Gere is not one of my favorite actors.

However, I like courtroom dramas, and this film looked good enough to take a chance on.

I wasn't disappointed.

It wasn't a great film, but it was interesting, and took several unexpected turns.

One thing: what's with the title?

Not only is it extremely forgettable, it doesn't really have much to do with the film, as far as I could determine.

In the long run, it will probably hurt the film, as people won't be able to think of or remember it. 

Martin Vail (Richard Gere) is a grandiose defense attorney.

He loves the money and the fame that go along with defending (successfully) rich scum, such as mafia men and drug-dealers.

Once he sees that the accused killer of a prominent Chicago Archbishop is a baby-faced alter boy, he wants in on the case, presumably for the press he'll get.

We soon find out that the prosecutor assigned is a former lover, Janet Venable (Laura Linney).

Vail himself is a former prosecutor, and quit because of tensions between himself and the District Attorney, played very well by John Mahoney (Frasier's father on the TV series). 

There is an underlying theme of dichotomy in the movie: people have public faces, and private faces.

We see this in the murdered archbishop, in the accused, and, most strongly, defense attorney Martin Vail. 

Richard Gere does a fairly good job.

At first, he appears to be a money-and attention-grabbing lawyer, with no consideration of the truth.

But we see another side, as he becomes a seeker of justice, and comes to believe in his client. 

Alfre Woodard, as the judge, is capable, though somewhat wasted in a standard role.

Laura Linney also does journeyman work; nothing spectacular, but acceptable.

Her relationship with Vail is believable; their verbal fencing adds to the film.

The actor who playes Vail's investigator (unfortunately, I don't remember his name) is quite good.

His female assistant (she looked very familiar, but I can't remember where I've seen her) was also capable, but unspectacular.

The best performance in the film was by Edward Norton.

He was excellent, as the timid altar-boy turned alleged "Butcher Boy of St. Mike's". 

I was impressed by the depth of the plot; there are red-herrings, and dead-ends, that in a lesser film would lead to a predictable ending.

I liked the plot twists the film took, and most of the supporting characters, thus I give PRIMAL FEAR a respectable rating. 


