I'm a dedicated fan of writer Kevin Williamson's work.

He always finds a clever way to spice up old material with witty dialogue and fresh ideas that stem from his inventive brain.

With Teaching Mrs. Tingle, his directorial debut, Williamson has reached the end of his rope.

What used to be intelligent about his films is hopelessly stale here.

The components are all there, including an encouraging premise that all high school students can relate to.

But where are the thrills?

The laughs?

Both are supposedly absent from this draggy exercise in elaborate revenge.

And what a shame that is. 

I loved the Scream films-heck, I even enjoyed the sci-fi goofiness of The Faculty.

Kevin Williamson was the reason horror films were such a big draw at the box office.

Teaching Mrs. Tingle, a black comedy that will leave a gaping void in his optimistic followers, may put an end to his reign.

Or perhaps it will encourage him to spend more time perfecting a script than to worry about his directing duties.

I still have my faith, but I fear the name of Kevin Williamson may soon be a forgotten echo of the past. 

The title character of his pet project is a vicious, uncaring History teacher who is played deliciously over-the-top by British actress Helen Mirren. 

Mrs. Tingle is basically every student's worst nightmare: a heartless human being bent on distributing poor marks to even the most hard-working of her pupils.

The principal (Michael McKean) is horrified of her, and she is unanimously despised among her fellow staff members.

I enjoyed the fact that everyone in the hallway quickly steers out of her way. 

Mirren's performance is one of the very few delights in this distressingly hollow black comedy that goes down like a flat soft drink.

In other words, it's a poor substitute for Williamson's best work. 

The plot is a big problem here.

Material that could have been enjoyable is rendered totally ridiculous by poor handling on the part of the director. 

The likable Katie Holmes plays Leigh Ann, an over-achiever hoping to get a college scholarship.

But typical Mrs. Tingle says her History project, which she worked on for countless hours, is laughable.

Later on while studying in the gymnasium, a classmate (Barry Watson) offers her a photo-copied duplicate of Mrs. Tingle's final exam.

Leigh Ann's best friend (Marisa Coughlan) encourages her to use it.

Alas, the old hag herself finds the three scheming, and snatches the test, and prepares to talk to the Principal in the morning. 

In the morning... how convenient!

The three students head to Mrs. Tingle's house, attempting to set the facts straight and clear Leigh Ann's name. 

Things get out of hand, and the teacher gets knocked unconscious in a tussle.

The plan is to tie her to a bed and try to get some reasoning out of her.

Of course, not everything goes entirely to plan. 

Besides pointless sub-plots involving the football coach (Jeffrey Tambor, horribly wasted), there is little by way of actual progress.

There is no urgency to the situation; little tension or laughs are involved.

The humor is completely inconsistent.

After many of the jokes, the theater was so silent I could have heard a fly sneeze.

You continue to await some momentum in the story, something that could possibly revive the slow pace.

A moment like that never arises.

Williamson also does a handsome job of wasting some of the key supporting players, including the talented McKean and Larry Sanders' vet Tambor.

And the beautiful Vivica A. Fox has one lifeless scene as a caring guidance counselor, and then Williamson disposes of her character entirely.

On the plus side, Holmes and Coughlan are admirable (with the latter giving a frighteningly believable exorcism impression), and Molly Ringwald has an amusing cameo appearance as a substitute teacher. 

While everything is pretty lifeless, Teaching Mrs. Tingle remains watchable. 

There are a few promising ideas that pop up now and again, but anything remotely interesting is squandered by the inane script.

Mirren is easily the best reason to keep watching.

She is convincingly evil and fun to watch, but even her gifted delivery can't save individual scenes that flounder in boredom.

If there is one word for the movie surrounding her, it would be `disappointing'. 

Basically, Kevin Williamson is his worst enemy here.

His uneventful direction prevents any aspects of his screenplay to be appreciated (not that his writing here is especially good).

We will see, when rookie screenwriter Ehren Kruger writes the third installment in the Scream franchise this Christmas, whether Williamson is for real. 
