Here I sit at my computer about to write my review of the recent action comedy "Bait" starring Jamie Foxx and David Morse.

This is a review I don't even want to write because I'd just be laying the same criticisms on it that I would with any other so-generic-and-predictable-it's-beyond-ridiculous piece of Hollywood fluff.

If they're not going to give us, the audience, just a little credit and put something together with half a brain, why should I waste my time and mental energy criticising it? 

Last summer I took this same approach with my review of "The Mummy," in that review I just quoted phrases my reviews of other sub-par movies.

I think I shall do the same thing here but with a few less quotes (not all are applicable).

I hope this goes to show you what I think of "Bait" and why you can find out all you need to know about it without having to take a wild guess. 

It's genuinely unfunny (I, and the other audience members only laughed ONCE during the entire two hours), unoriginal and unthrilling.

It's not so bad to the point where it's fun to watch because of its badness and it's no so bad you absolute loathe it and are pained by watching it, it's just such a cliche in and of itself, that, uhh... lost my train of thought. 

Anyways, here's those quotes, enjoy! 

"Getting an audience's attention right from the beginning plays a major role in how today's films work."
We want to have something exciting to watch, not a slow build-up of a story (God forbid!), and this film plays right into the mainstream's hands... "-review of" Armageddon. ""
"It's clear the film doesn't want to waste time on reality and thus the attempt to establish plausability (the most minimal amount necessary) comes across as a half-assed effort."
Supporting characters and shady sup-plots are introduced, but as is the case with films made up of a large cast of characters, only a handful have any real significance...

There's a fine line separating homage from plagiarism..., "-review of" Godzilla "(1998)" Unfortunately, as is the case with most modern thrillers, once the film showed potential for authenticity and intelligence, the cliches and action sequences take over, "-review of" The Jackal. ""
Chad'z Movie Page is back after heavy renovation.

Reviews of nearly all mainstream movies playing today!

Get my reviews of everything playing at your local cineplex so you can better make an informed decision on what to see.

Don't forget to vote on my poll and sign the guestbook! 
