Because no one demanded it: David Duchovny in a romantic comedy!

At last, both his romantic magnetism and his comedic brilliance are mined for all their resources!

The choice of Duchovny may have something to do with the plot, which could be fodder for a Valentine's Day episode of "The X-Files." 

Bob Rueland (David Duchovny) loses his wife Elizabeth (Joely Richardson) in a car accident.

At the same time, Grace Briggs (Minnie Driver) is in the hospital, waiting for a heart transplant.

Grace gets Elizabeth's heart, and it leads her to Bob.

It's the romantic equivalent of all those horror films where someone gets a transplant from a serial killer and then is driven to slaughter people. 

Four writers are credited with contributing to the story.

That doesn't seem possible.

Despite being a solid two hours long, "Return to Me" adds little to the "boy meets girl / boy loses girl" formula and, as a result, is terribly tedious and slow-moving.

Duchovny and Driver seem unable to generate any sparks, and I kept wishing for a fast-forward button to move their scenes along.

Since Driver has managed to work well in romantic roles before, I blame Duchovny.

He's out of his element without the manufactured and static sexual tension of his TV series (and I've always thought that the relationship between Mulder and Scully on "The X-Files" comes off more sibling-like than hot-and-bothered).

There's something about Duchovny that makes me uneasy.

Regardless of the role he's playing, he comes off as a weirdo. 

The only redeeming quality of "Return to Me" is its hilarious supporting cast.

The circle of friends and relatives around Bob and Grace is constantly playing matchmaker, and they generate the only laughs in the movie.

Carroll O'Connor is Grace's grandfather Marty O'Reilly.

When Bob comes into Marty's restaurant after hours, Marty immediately begins quizzing Bob about his marital status.

When Marty discovers that Bob is a widower, he invites Bob to join his poker game and introduces him with the declaration, "This is Bob!"
His wife is dead! ""
The poker buddies are just as desperate to find a mate for Grace and greet Bob enthusiastically when they hear the news. 

Also funny: Bonnie Hunt as Grace's best friend Megan and James Belushi as Megan's husband Joe.

Married with children, Megan and Joe provide a useful counterpoint by showing the mundane results of romance.

Although it's rare to see him in a movie that premieres in a theater, Belushi delivers his lines with great comic skill.

Rounding out the impressive supporting cast are David Alan Grier as Bob's best friend and Robert Loggia as Marty's brother-in-law Angelo.

In only the lead actors lived up to the standards set by the rest of the cast. 

Bottom line: If you are compelled to see this movie, watch it on video so you can fast-forward to scenes with Carroll O'Connor and James Belushi. 


