For a movie with such deep religious and spiritual undertones, it is surprising to find THE MESSENGER: THE STORY OF JOAN OF ARC such an ungodly mess. 

In the early to mid 1400's, there was little in the way of spiritual light to be found shining from the heart of a man or woman.

The church was a dismally dark and oppressive place.

France was involved in "The Hundred Years War" against England.

There was no strong political leadership in the country.

Morale was low, there being little hope for the future.

It was within this setting that a young French girl began hearing "voices" and seeing "visions." 

Convinced that these were messages from God, she brazenly demanded to see the dauphin in order to deliver the message directly to him.

The message: If he would give her an army to command, she would deliver to him the crown.

He does...

And she does.

Then, once seated on the throne, he abandons her to her English captors. 

Director Luc Besson (THE FIFTH ELEMENT) may have co-wrote the script but he never appeared to have a proper handle on the material.

The inconsistencies of the cast, the confusing blur of the violent battle scenes, the inappropriate musical score, and the lack of a vibrant life force at the center of the film adds up to a largely disappointing end product which is oftentimes unintentionally laughable. 

His biggest miscue was to cast his wife, Milla Jovovich (THE FIFTH ELEMENT) in the title role.

Ms. Jovovich, looks spectacular as Joan, clad in battle armor, astride a similarly protected horse.

If looks were enough to fully convey a character, she would have been brilliant.

Since it isn't, she tried (and failed) to act the part.

Her Joan is unbalanced, "inspiring" the troops merely by screaming stridently and waving her banner or sword over her head like a woman possessed. 

John Malkovich (BEING JOHN MALKOVICH) fares a bit better as the dauphin, who Joan would see on the throne as Charles VII.

An easily manipulated man, his weakness of character foreshadows the betrayal of Joan which would lead to her death. 

Faye Dunaway (THE THOMAS CROWN AFFAIR) gives a strong performance in minimal screen time as the dauphin's mother-in-law and chief advisor.

The army under Joan's command are comprised of comical figures, more stooges than soldiers. 

The one exception would be Tcheky Karyo (LA FEMME NIKITA) as Dunois, the man who was leading the attack prior to Joan's arrival.

Trying to plan a systematic campaign, he sees his leadership authority negated by Joan's insistence on following her "visions." 

Dustin Hoffman (SPHERE) has a small inhuman role as Joan's conscience which begins speaking to her while awaiting trial.

Dressed like cloaked monk, he leads her to doubt herself and her "revelations."

As well she should. 

Scriptures do speak of revelation.

God, via His gift of holy spirit, is able to communicate to men.

Three of the nine manifestations of holy spirit listed inCorinthiansdeal with receiving revelation.

They are: word of knowledge, word of wisdom, and discerning of spirits.

Even the scriptures themselves are a result of God giving revelation to His "holy men... who spake as they were moved by holy spirit (i.e. by revelation.)" 

"Beloved, believe not every spirit, but try the spirits whether they are of God: because many false prophets are gone out into the world."

John 4:1 [ KJV ] Joan's end, (being burned at the stake at the age of 19), the frenzy (mob rule) and blood lust her inspiration wrought, and the death, pain, or suffering which followed her campaign all point to a devilish influence rather than a godly one. 

While her conviction and intense believing remains an admirable quality, she was, as others have been before and since, misled by the spiritual master of deception.

As a messenger, she was quite effective.

She was just confused as to whose message she was carrying. 
