"Ladybugs" is a typical comedy that relies on three supposed guarantees: the pathetic team who beats the champs; cross dressing; and the presence of Rodney Dangerfield. 

This picture doesn't play like a comedy for children, so who is it aimed at? 

And why is it told like a 91-minute sit-com instead of a feature film? 

Rodney Dangerfield stars as Chester Lee, a total schmuck working at a huge corporation. 

He obviously doesn't have a lot of self esteem and thinks he has to kiss up to get ahead, which he does by volunteering to coach the company's girls' soccer team. 

What a shock to learn Chester and his assistant Julie (Jackee) know absolutely nothing about the game, and the players seem to know even less. 

I didn't laugh, but for some reason it didn't annoy me that much. 

Chester's fiancee Bess (Graff) thinks he got a promotion in addition to the coaching position, and of course she has a slacker for a son who is doing poorly in school and is kicked off the sports teams. 

Jonathon Brandis is a nice surprise as Matthew, who agrees to dress up as a girl named Martha to help out Chester (probably because the girl he has a crush on plays on the team-what original story ideas!). 

What we get is just another retread of the "underdog sports team" mixed with some cross dressing. 

Unfortunately, the film isn't smart enough to play upon the drag aspect. 

In fact, it downplays it so heavily it's totally unbelievable. 

Could it be any more obvious Martha is a boy? 

He only wears a girl's wig, without any makeup, and they don't even give him falsies. 

Brandis doesn't bother to mimic a girl's voice either. 

Then there is a pointless scene where Chester and Matthew shop for a dress, but for what reason? 

Martha is only seen on the soccer field, why would they buy a dress for her? 

Just when we think the Martha character is going to be useful, she disappears, and the story wanders aimlessly looking for a new plot to pick up on. 

When Bess discovers what's really going on she breaks up with Chester, and the relationship is forgotten about and the film focuses on the soccer team and the tension between Chester and his boss. 

This film could've been less bad had it been the cliche sports comedy, but it feels the need to go off on tangents that are completely unnecessary (and bad at that). 

There's just too much of a sit-com feel here, especially during the so-called serious moments, and all the confusion between the characters. 

I've seen worse movies than "Ladybugs," but for some reason it contained some sort of bizarre charm, so even when it turns sour it doesn't seem as bad as it is. 

Dangerfield finally gets his respect in the end, but at what a price.
