"Deep Rising" gives you that sinking feeling both literally and figuratively: Not only does the movie take place on a cruise ship slowly being immersed into the middle of the ocean by a squid-like menace, but the unfolding story is artificial, silly and almost completely derivative of countless other (and, for the most part, better) films.

While dumb monster movies can at least be decent guilty pleasures--take, for example, the schlocky mountain highs of last spring's "Anaconda"--"Deep Rising" has no tongue to put in its cheek.

Folks, we're only a month into the new year, and already here's a candidate for one of its stinkiest releases. 

Most of the action takes place on the Argonautica, a luxury liner in the middle of its maiden voyage (uh-oh--if these people had seen "Titanic," then maybe they'd have known to stay home) when it's attacked by a giant, tentacled sea creature.

The only survivors are slinky jewel thief Trilian (Famke Janssen), Argonautica owner Canton (Anthony Heald) and a few other crew members.

A mercenary team, lead by resourceful captain John Finnegan (Treat Williams), board the Argonautica looking for assistance after their own boat breaks down nearby.

But what their search of the ship uncovers is something blood-soaked, hungry and not very helpful. 

The main problem with "Deep Rising" is its overt familiarity; the movie makes absolutely no attempt to differentiate itself from most sci-fi/horror films in recent memory.

The concept is "Leviathan" meets "Titanic," with a dash of "Speed 2" thrown in for good (or is that bad?) measure.

This monster is equal parts "20,000 Leagues Under the Sea" and "The Relic," knows how to open doors like the Raptors from "Jurassic Park" and even gets to expel a half-digested victim (a neat effect, admittedly) a la the giant snake in "Anaconda."

Some of the attack sequences are straight out of "Jaws" and "Alien."

A scene where the remaining survivors have to travel under water to escape death is right out of "Alien Resurrection."

There's even a jet ski chase like "Hard Rain."

And the list goes on. 

Watching "Deep Rising"'s cast battle the beast is a murky chore in itself, because none of them have well-developed characters, nor do they seem to project even the slightest sense of fear when facing their enemy.

Williams is affable enough, but his Finnegan just isn't believable.

An interesting supporting cast is thoroughly wasted; pretty Famke Janssen, best known as "GoldenEye"'s killer thighs, is trapped in a forced romantic interest with Williams, while Kevin J. O'Connor, as Finnegan's mechanic, provides comic relief with screechy manic shtick that gets old fast.

Djimon Honsou, who received raves for his performance as a noble slave in December's "Amistad," pops up in a brief part.

He needs to stay away from the water. 

The movie's final shot is a groaner, as is the 11th-hour regurgitation of a subplot involving an on-ship saboteur.

As if a cast deserving of their snack food-fate isn't bad enough (when you taunt the monster, you're really asking for it), "Deep Rising" is a slow, stupid slog through a story without a single bright spot.

And since we all know that the higher the casualty rate is, the closer we are to the end of the movie, rooting for this overgrown squid to swallow the whole ship isn't out of the question. 


