The concept of enjoying a stupid comedy is best realized as keeping it stupid, really. 

Shift gears even once and the audience can be thrown miserably out of control. 

Sadly, that is the case with Kingpin, a film directed by the Farrelly Brothers, the duo that brought us There's Something About Mary and Dumb and Dumber. 

Since the duo directed and didn't write the script, I can assume that's part of the problem. 

The story seems good enough: a pro bowler in the 1970's by the name of Roy Munson (Woody Harrelson) is sitting on top of the world. 

His popularity has gone through the roof and he's getting his career off the ground. 

Then, however, he runs into Ed McCracken (Bill Murray), a rival bowler with hardly any real consideration for, well, anything. 

These two form an ill-timed relationship that involves risky betting, and, before Roy sees it coming, Ed's abandoned him and he's about to lose his hand in a bowling ball machine. 

Forward seventeen years later, where Roy has become quite the loser, complete with mechanical hand, torn-up car, and, of course, the occasional knocking up of the ugly-ass landlord to avoid paying rent for a while. 

However, he finds a glimmer of a hope upon a visit to a local bowling alley, where he runs into an Amish kid named Ishmael (Randy Quaid), who has quite the bowling arm. 

With the kid's help, he figures he can be known again, particularly at the biggest bowling tournament rapidly approaching in Reno, Nevada. 

Of course, the Amish kid needs some coaxing, particularly when you consider, well, he's Amish. 

This leads to some of the best comic scenes in the film, such as Roy's process of removing horseshoes or milking the cow. 

Finally, the duo get on the road and, along the way, pick up an additional helper-a beautiful hustler (played by the gorgeous Vanessa Angel). 

The main problem I had with Kingpin wasn't the fact it wasn't funny. 

In fact, it does have some rather hilarious scenes in it, such as the aformentioned above and Roy's explanation of not having children (something involving a cheese grater?). 

But that's just it-scenes. 

There's a couple of really serious scenes that throw off the entire momentum of the movie, like the abuse Angel takes from her hustler ex-boyfriend. 

I mean, was this really necessary? 

Couldn't have this been handled just a bit wackier? 

I mean, this is a comedy, why throw ethics in? 

Particularly in a Farrelly Brothers vehicle, where hair gel can be easily mistaken? 

That really ruined it, however, and that's too bad. 

The acting is top notch, especially from Angel and Murray, and the really funny scenes are worth noting. 

Still, if you're going to think dumb, think dumb all the way through, OK? 

At least the Farrelly Brothers got back on track with Mary or I'd still be a little bit irked. 
