In Double Jeopardy, the stakes are high.

Think of the plot as a rehash of Sleeping With the Enemy, and then rearrange the details and the gender of the stalker.

The finished product, although able to maintain the viewer's attention, is a predictable and unexciting thriller with an idiotic script. `Alex, I'll take Homicide for $ 400... ' 

Libby Parsons (Ashley Judd) is a happily married mom leading a normal life. 

One night, her husband Nick (Bruce Greenwood) takes her out for a romantic escape on a sailboat.

Libby awakens in the middle of the night to find she is covered in blood and Nick has strangely disappeared.

She follows a trail of bloody footprints up to the deck, where she handles a fallen knife (like any stupid character) and is spotted by the Coast Guard, who are responding to a distress signal sent earlier in the evening.

Nick is presumed dead, and although she pleads her innocence, Libby is tried and convicted for the murder of her husband. 

Now, please don't think I'm spoiling any vital plot details, because the informative trailer has already spilled most of the beans.

If you haven't seen this preview, don't read any further.

But seriously, the inane screenplay by Douglas Weisberg and Douglas S. Cook is so elementary that the average viewer will be two or three steps ahead of the characters.

During the most vital scenes in the movie, I was anticipating every twist or `surprise' that eventually popped up on the screen.

I imagine the writers presume their core audience for Double Jeopardy is a very naive group of individuals.

Most, unfortunately, will be too distracted by the moronic plot to appreciate the few positive aspects of the production. 

One is Tommy Lee Jones, who plays Travis Lehman, a parole officer given the tedious task of watching over Libby after she serves her sentence in prison. 

Jones is always wonderful as an authority figure, and he's certainly familiar with this sort of role (as he played so well in The Fugitive and US Marshals).

Judd, as a likable heroin with gusto, also has a chance to flex her acting abilities.

While emotionally unconvincing, the actress is tremendously fun in her juvenile role, perking up the movie like an injection of anti-depressant.

The actors, and their relationship together, present the one-two punch that prevents Double Jeopardy from derailing itself entirely. 

And now, back to the plot.

While behind bars, Libby learns an interesting little bit of information: a person can't be convicted of the same crime twice.

This law, called `double jeopardy', could be her motive for hunting down her husband... who may still be alive.

Yes, you heard right.

The movie degenerates into a cross-country chase, where everything you expect to happen... does.

The final scenes, which could have redeemed the film, are poorly handled by director Bruce Beresford-whose previous work centers highly around drama (Driving Miss Daisy, Paradise Road).

Ironically, it is those elements-like the driving force of Libby to reunite with her son-that don't quite work here. 

At least Double Jeopardy is paced well enough to satisfy diehard fans of the two stars.

Unfortunately, Jones lacks some of the edge that he had as Sam Gerard in The Fugitive, and the real depth of his character is only skin deep.

But he and Ashley Judd are more than welcome considering the material, and both have some memorable comic moments.

Judd, in particular, has a hilarious scene in which she wards off an oncoming male by explaining she has to check in with her `parole officer'.

Hmmm... perhaps this would have made a good comedy. 

It is disappointing, because there are the makings of a competent action film here.

It's nicely shot and choreographed in downtown Vancouver, and will entertain those who aren't turned off by the woeful story-line.

Tis a shame that Double Jeopardy is an adult thriller that wouldn't fool most children. 

Contact Jamey at: movieviews@hotmail.com 
