Based on a novel by John Lutz.

Screenplay by Larry Cohen and John Lutz. 

Directed by Mark L. Lester.

Starring Yancy Butler, Suzy Amis, Nick Mancuso. 

Rated R (contains violence, nudity, and profanity) mins. 

Synopsis: Easily-angered, chainsmoking architect David encounters his homicidal first wife Diedre five years after their divorce.

Diedre easily cons David's not-so-bright new wife Molly into believing she's a child psychologist so that she can influence Molly and David's quick-tempered son, Michael.

Diedre, at the same time, murders a bunch of people. 

Comments: THE EX is a very bad movie.

I haven't seen a turkey of this magnitude in quite a while.

I kept vacillating, however, between giving THE EXstarsfor its sheer awfulness andstarsfor its campy humor (ultimately, I decided to split the difference and give it two stars). 

As summarized briefly in the synopsis, this is yet another spurned-psycho-lover-gets-her-revenge type movie.

I'm not sure how many films have been produced since FATAL ATTRACTION which use this tired storyline, but it seems like 10,000,000,000.

THE EX, however, though following many of the standard cliches of this thriller subgenre, differs slightly from the norm in that, at least, it doesn't take itself too seriously like so many other duds do (MALICIOUS and STALKED are two examples which come to mind).

Those involved in the movie realize they're in a turkey, apparently, and turn in hammy performances which compliment the ludicrous dialogue contained within the script. 

THE EX's storyline, as I said, incorporates many cliches predominant in films of its nature; however, the plot is so overwrought and unbelievable that, after a while, the viewer must accept that logic does not operate in the realm of the movie.

Diedre, David's first wife, kills and kills and kills, for example, without ever having to worry about police investigations and the like (it's not as though she's bright enough not to leave fingerprints at the scene of the crime).

David and his new wife Molly have an incredibly difficult time understanding why Michael, their son, has emotional problems, specifically his inability to control his anger.

Though David smokes like tomorrow will never come and blows up at people every other minute in the movie, the connection between him and his son is not made. 

Molly is easily swayed by Diedre into believing she's a child psychologist and allows the demented woman to spend time with her son.

Time and time again, things do not add up in this movie.

If a viewer can't accept this fact, then he will definately not like THE EX.

If, on the other hand, he can appreciate the movie for its campiness, then he'll probably like it much better. 

I don't mean to necessarily suggest, however, that THE EX is a memorable exercise in camp.

Even when viewed from an it's-so-bad-it's-good angle, this movie isn't all that successful.

THE EX does have its moments, though, almost all of which involve Yancy Butler (the psychotic Diedre) and Nick Mancuso (David).

These two actors turn in decidedly hammy performances which, oftentimes, elicit chuckles from the audience.

The truly awful lines written for them help this humor along.

Butler gets the larger portion of bad dialogue; every time her character kills someone, she has a punchline that's unbelievably inane.

When she murders a tenant of an apartment she wishes to use to spy on David, for example, Diedre whacks the elderly lady with a crowbar and states "I'm so sorry, your lease is terminated."

Or how about when Diedre takes out her therapist in another ridiculous scene? 

(Diedre's therapist wishes to have her recommitted, so she decides to visit Diedre, alone, in her new apartment--never realizing, of course, that it's not her's.

Therapists typically are catatonically brain-dead in these movies).

Having successfully snuffed the woman out, Diedre looks at the body and says: "What was it that you always said to me at the end of each session, Dr. Jones?"
Oh, that's right. 'I'm sorry, but your time is up!' ""
This is what passes for humor in the film.

The audience doesn't necessarily laugh but groan (the type of groan that suggests the audience can't believe they're watching this crap--although watching it they are).

Nick Mancuso's chainsmoking, nervous-wreck character does not have the cheesy lines that Butler's character delivers, but his ridiculously overdone performance provides for some better comic relief.

In between drags off his cigarette, for instance, in one of the movie's best scenes, David tries to explain to his lawyer what a creep his ex-wife is.

In exaggerated exasperation, he nearly shouts "the woman is a cuckoo-bird!"

(Trust me, it is funny in context.) 

And so, the movie continues until its painfully obvious conclusion.

I won't reveal the ending specifically (though anyone remotely familiar with thrillers of this type could probably guess the ending just from this film review), but I will say that THE EX has one of the biggest fire hazards appearing recently in film.

Molly and David own a cabin that becomes engulfed by flames in approximately three seconds!

Molly, at one point in the film, not-so-brilliantly observes, after discovering Diedre has moved into an apartment across from her family's to spy upon them, that "she's crazy."

You'd be pretty crazy too if you'd rented this turkey.

I'd avoid it unless it's on TV and you come across it.

If you do, you may want to watch it, groan at the bad punchlines and stupid plot, and feel good that you didn't spend money renting it. 
