LOSER 

As with most of her films, director Amy Heckerling's latest, Loser, seesaws between unpleasant and artificial, and is sometimes both at once. 

When she tackles big issues, such as abortion in Fast Times at Ridgemont High, it's impossible to tell whether she's being matter-of-fact or glib about them (they carry an almost documentary starkness), but whatever the case, she continually refuses to comment politically. 

Such is the sitcom tendency of her work: to jeopardize the innocence of her characters and then hit the reset button. 

This fear of drama soured me on Fast Times..., Look Who's Talking, Clueless, and now Loser, in which Ms. Heckerling also demonstrates, for the first time, zero affinity for the milieu. 

Has anyone, for instance, ever met a girl in the stylistic vein of Mena Suvari's Dora? 

Attired in black thrift, her eye shadow smeared to racoon chic and her bangy red hair barely contained by girlish clips, she accepts the label of goth, but no self-respecting goth girl ever admitted to digging, as Dora does, those geriatric rockers Everclear, nor willingly went anywhere with a six-pack-wielding fratboy stranger. 

The mechanics of Loser's tired old introvert-boy-falls-for-extrovert-girl plot drive its protagonists into cultural non-specificity, so that they become even less than stereotypes. 

They become walking wardrobes. 

Small-town transplant Paul (a strangely static Jason Biggs), our eponymous hero, always wears his woolly hunter's cap with flaps covering the ears, and beneath it rests a parted moptop that couldn't scream "Shemp" (the lame Stooge) wig louder. 

He has three smug-looking roommates (the one-dimensional trio is not supposed to be brothers, but they share similar facial features, including and especially mouths), and their fashion sense is incomprehensibly glam. 

Though they're not overtly transvestites, Heckerling seems to be equating flamboyance with villainy; how very Cruising of her. 

(The dormies conspire to evict Paul and regularly molest women they have drugged. 

Dora ignorantly downs one of their date rape potions. 

Unfortunately, either Heckerling or the studio is too cowardly to admit if she was subsequently violated.) 

When Paul rescues Dora from said narcotic scare, he learns that she is dating their unctuous European lit professor Edward Alcott (superb Greg Kinnear). 

Although Paul's already in love with Dora by this point, as is bound to happen to losers when pretty girls address them by name, he gets altruistic and pretends the flowers he bought her are actually from Alcott. 

She's thrilled, but nevertheless spends a few days at Paul's to recuperate; the two bond over emergency kitten surgery and a Broadway play ("Cabaret"), and just when Paul's got in his head that she's starting to love him back in that non-friendly way, she decides to become Alcott's live-in girlfriend. 

Cue precious hommage to The Graduate, shots of Paul drifting around Berkeley--er... 

(Aside: Simon & Garfunkel's "Parsley, Sage, Rosemary & Thyme" should never have been allowed in another motion picture.) 

Heckerling has a lot in common with Nora "You've Got Mail" Ephron, the only other prominent chick directing comedies today, in that neither has any use for strong-willed women. 

Men continue to trod on Dora until the bitter end (in the final scene, she gives Paul a big smooch after he blurts out his feelings in what amounts to a creepy ultimatum), and Dora ultimately shrugs off being drugged against her will--mere hours after Paul hints to her that she was poisoned, she's cheerily redecorating his apartment. 

(Heckerling is so laissez-faire about the issue in general that she reserves the comeuppance of the would-be rapists for jokey epilogue titles.) 

Goth veneer aside, there are an awful lot of girls out there who behave as erratically as Dora, and enough angry young dude filmmakers to make movies about them. 

Heckerling misses her shot at having Dora transform herself into a role model, and while such arcs may not be Heckerling's social responsibility, it is a privilege I would have taken advantage of if I were in her shoes. 

(Consider, too, that Dora is the film's sole female principal.) 

Not that Loser is worth contemplating this seriously--God knows Heckerling didn't. 

That is her hallmark.
