"Pokemon 3: The Movie" has a lot of bad things in it. 

First of all it's a plot heavy mess that has bad voice talents, badly written script and fantastic animation. 

The first film came out the end of 1999 and was a huge hit grossing almost $ 90 million domestically. 

A sequel soon followed and even made $ 45 million. 

Warner has released their third movie based on the immensely popular video game and TV series and its a waste of time and celluloid. 

This time Ash Ketchum and his friends are on their way to the Johto battles (which my little brother told me the new spinoff is "Pokemon: The Johto Journeys" so go figure) anyway he comes in contact with a young girl who's father has disappeared after trying to discover The Unown. 

They are small Pokemon with a powerful punch and have great psychic abilities. 

The Unown bring together their psychic abilities and create Entei a powerful legendary Pokemon who barriers young Molly's house and creates every wish she wants. 

Now it's up to Ash and his friends to stop this Pokemon Entei and show him to be a good Pokemon rather than a bad one. 

Too bad really that this is a bad movie, surprisingly the first movie was entertaining and somewhat absorbing, the second was a piece of trash and this one is almost in between. 

It has some good qualities (animation, message in the end) but the flaws seem to overpower the goods. 

I'm still not sure what the big thing is about Pokemon, they are ugly little animals who speak their own name for their language (besides Meowth, my personal favorite) and you don't understand what they are saying. 

My little brother just thought the movie was amazing, and I kept leaning over and asking him happened, or what Pokemon that was. 

His response was a big lecture of how this is that, and that is this... he sure did put me in my place. 

With the second and third movie being bad, I have a feeling Pokemon 4: The Movie might be a total bust as well. 

"Pokemon 3: The Movie" has some redeeming qualities for the kids, and the Pokemon fans will dig every minute of this film. 

For those parents and/or brothers and sisters who have to sit through this... bring a pillow. 
