Chris Tucker is one of those guys you immediately get a reaction from--you either find his helium voice, crazy eyes and jerky mannerisms funny or annoying. 

I think I fall into the former category (I'm one of the few who thought his turn in "The Fifth Element" as a prancing, Prince-like deejay was complete inspired lunacy and not the least bit aggravating), but his new vehicle "Money Talks" just doesn't do him service. 

Tucker is good in the movie--and this is the kind of film that, if people see it, could make him a big star--but he's also really the only thing good about the movie. 

In fact, if you see "Money Talks," it should shock you beyond recognition that two of "Toy Story"'s writers penned the sloppy script. 

Tucker's role here is that of Franklin Hatchett, a petty Los Angeles con artist whose carwash scams get him dogged by investigative reporter James Russell (Charlie Sheen). 

After being busted on the job for some illegal business involving counterfeit passports, Franklin finds himself on a bus to the county jail and handcuffed to slick international jewel smuggler Raymond Villard (Gerard Ismael). 

But Villard's thugs blow up the bus in an attempt to free their leader (never mind that the explosion could have instead killed him), and because he and Franklin are joined at the wrist, Franklin is allowed to escape as well, but not before overhearing some important information regarding a diamond stash that--for some reason or another--is being hidden in a vintage roadster waiting to be auctioned off at an upcoming auto expo. 

The local media mistakenly puts the prison break-out blame on Franklin, which is where James comes back into the picture. 

He makes a deal to protect Franklin if, in turn, Franklin gives him an exclusive interview. 

This means James must present his new "friend" in the stickiest of situations--a formal dinner party for he and fiancee Grace (Heather Locklear), also attended by her uber-rich parents (Veronica Cartwright and nicely game Paul Sorvino). 

And of course the bad guys track Franklin down and try to knock him off, all the while he spars and forms an unlikely bond with James. 

"This ain't no buddy movie," claim the print ads. 

Yeah, right. 

Actually, for the better part of, oh, 20 minutes, it appears "Money Talks" has the momentum to cover entertaining ground, and this is mostly due to the presence of spastic motormouth Tucker. 

This is Tucker's first leading role, and if you imagine a slightly lankier, African-American Jim Carrey with a reliance on wild R-rated raunch rather than PG-13 physical comedy, you have a good idea of the conviction with which he assaults the role. 

But you realize all too quickly that Tucker's overstated liveliness is the only thing "Money Talks" has going for it. 

And a lively actor alone does not a successful movie make. 

It's all too easy to pick out everything wrong with "Money Talks." 

The plot is recycled buddy-buddy comedy-thriller tripe that seemed overused even when "Nothing to Lose" employed it last month. 

Everything is paint-by-numbers, especially the Los Angeles Coliseum finale, which finds not one, not two, but three separate enemy factions firing at Franklin as they pursue him through the bleachers. 

The villains, as many as there are, are dull. 

Certain story elements are too coincidental. 

And too much of the film's dramatic agenda is played too straight. 

A scene where Grace confronts James after learning Franklin's true identity ("You brought a killer into my parents' house!") is extremely silly. 

You get the picture. 

Obviously, I did not have a pleasant experience at "Money Talks." 

But the people around me appeared to be having a rip-roaring good time (one gentleman several rows behind me chortled with such expressive conviction I began fearing for his health). 

But Tucker, at least for me, is a pretty funny guy, and aces the movie's best scene, where Franklin passes himself off as Vic Damone's son at James and Grace's engagement bash and toasts the couple with Barry White lyrics. 

Tucker's audience--and he does have one--will probably like "Money Talks." 

Those who he irritates, however, will have a more productive day staying home and scraping the gook out from under their toenails.
