Lucas was wise to start his Star Wars trilogy with Episode 4: Episode 1 is a boring, empty spectacle that features some nice special effects. 

After the familiar ' A long time ago.... ' opening, the film starts with the opening yellow crawl that features in every Star Wars movie and computer game. 

The plot is that the trade confederation are blocking off supplies to the peaceful planet of Naboo, ruled by Queen Amidala (Portman) Jedi Knights Qui-Gon (Neeson) and Obi Wan (McGregor) are sent to negotiate a deal with the confederation to stop the blockade. 

However, this simple blockade is not all it seems, and the Jedi Knights soon have to deal with many more dangers, including facing the evil Darth Maul (Ray Park.) 

They also meet the future Darth Vadar, Anakin Skywalker (Jake Lloyd) Star Wars is largely a failure in all the major areas of filmmaking: script, direction and characters. 

The script desperately tries to make an thin and boring story into a two hour epic. 

The trade confederation plot is just not as exciting as the death star, and as the film goes on the drama becomes more and more non-existent. 

There's no underlying tension, and no urgent need to see what the outcome is. 

The film also takes a leisurely pace in telling the boring story, which doesn't help. 

There's no snap to make the film work, it moves at a plod. 

The script is boring: all the characters speak in morals, especially Anakins mother. 

There's no group spirit evident here, and when all characters can speak only in profound statements or bark orders, it's evident that not much is going to happen. 

The two leads are hideously boring, static characters given little to do and too much time to do it. 

Qui-Gon and Obi-Wan hold no presence on film, and give little for the audience to root for. 

The audience will probably warm more to bad guy Darth Maul, if he had been given more screen time. 

Maul is one of the most underused bad guys in film history, even if he does provide the only ' straight ' plot line in the film (all the other plots in this film are to be concluded throughout the trilogy.) 

Anakin is annoying and unlikeable., instead of cute and huggable as Lucas no doubt intended. 

It's probably not surprising that his hateful little boy, unfortunately blessed ' Ani ' by everyone he knows, joins the dark side and kills everyone as quickly as possible. 

The comedy relief is supposedly provided by the gangly Jar Jar Brinks, although in the end none is provided in the film by him. 

Although his floppy features will no doubt be great for stuffed toys, the lines and actions he is given are painfully unfunny. 

The only good laugh is when his tongue is burned by a ' pod ' racer, because I knew he wouldn't be able to talk for a while. 

Queen Amidala is a nothing in the film, she serves no real purpose apart from the fact that she must ' serve her people, ' and go goo-goo over Anakin. 

Again, her role will become more important in the later episodes, and is given little to do here. 

The actors don't help the movie much either. 

Liam Neeson seems bored and embarrassed, and seems desperate to leave the movie as quickly as possible. 

McGregor comes across as a posh mothers boy, with little charm. 

The casting director must have chose him because he's Scottish like Alec Guinness: there's little other explanation for it. 

Natalie Portman is plagued by hideous costumes and a poor script, but she delivers a spunky performance. 

And Jake Lloyd looks at everyone with hateful eyes and delivers his lines in a bored voice. 

There's very little talent evident with him, it's hard to see why Lucas chose him when there are better child actors out there. 

He's not even very ' cute. ' 

The main claim of the film, the special effects, are okay. 

There's nothing impressive about them, yet they complement the story well. 

The CGI takes away much of the human element, however. 

The battle droids for example, the replacement for the stormtroopers, are characterless little computer graphics, lacking the humour and humanness that came from the stormtroopers. 

Episode 1 is just disappointing. 

It's got high production values, but little else. 

The music is meandering, except near the end. 

The plot gives us no-one to root for, or even care for. 

The effects are nice, but dull. 

The plot goes on for half an hour longer than it should. 

There's an air of manufacturing among the whole sorry affair, and many clichs are catered for throughout the film. 

Apart from a remotely exciting pod race sequence, Episode 1 is a dry affair that serves little purpose, except to make money and to get us to watch Episode 2 to see what happens to the many unfinished plot lines in the film. 

Disappointing is barely the word. 
