Monkeybone 

"From the director of" The Nightmare Before Christmas "it said in the previews, which I'm guessing was said to get people to go see the movie, obviously it hasn't worked since the $ 75 million dollar movie has yet to break $ 5 million."
To each it's own however, since "Monkey Bone" is not only a bad movie all together, but technically well-made. 

A tragic waste of talent and incredible visual effects. 

Stu Miley is the genius behind the new phenomena "Monkey Bone" a crude comic strip, that everyone wants to merchandise, they go to great links to get it as well, including dollars that let out fart powder. 

When Stu and his girlfriend, Julie (Bridget Fonda) are in a freak car accident (you'll see) Stu goes into a coma, and while in his coma Stu travels to I'm guessing Dark Town, where all the characters in dreams come to life. 

People are stuck in this town, with their nightmares roaming around them. 

When Stu spots Monkey Bone (whom he really can't stand) he tries to keep him under control. 

Making a new friend Kitty (Rose McGowan) he learns that if he gets an exit pass from Death, he can go back up and live his life. 

When Monkey Bone and Stu steal a pass, Monkey Bone becomes a trader and takes it and goes into Stu's body. 

Now Monkey Bone must get everyone to buy these dolls with nightmare powder, so everyone has nightmares... or something like that. 

Rather complex (in fact more than it needs to be) "Monkey Bone" had potential in the script and even the story. 

What is considerably noticeable is the gaping plot holes, and lack of character development. 

For instance we really don't get to know who Stu or Julie are, so why should we even care? 

Kitty played well by Rose McGowan ha a story behind her, but we are not given a chance to know her. 

The cast is decent however, Brendan Fraser seems to be enjoying himself in the role as Stu Miley, but becomes awfully annoying when Monkey Bone takes over his body. 

Bridget Fonda is dreary and seems to bring the film to a screeching halt, her performance is bad and she seems miscast. 

Dave Foley isn't given enough to do, as well as "Will & Grace's" Megan Mullally who can be funny. 

The standout performance is the voice of Nick Turturro as Monkey Bone himself, he is very funny and entertaining and really keeps the film from being a total bust. 

The special effects of "Monkey Bone" is what might really bring in some curious viewers, these special effects are highly effective, and nice to look at with the eyes. 

Some of them are believable and some unbelievable... for Monkey Bone he seems to be like Stuart Little, you really don't realize that he is animated... but on occasion it sneaks up on you. 

The direction by Henry Selick is good, but at times he doesn't know what kind of film he wants to make, and the ending climax falls off the cliff. 

It's too bad really, "Monkey Bone" could have been a real good movie, but with it's heavily done hack job, and lack of character development it just sinks when the end credits role. 

For those curious however, it might be worth the rental, but other than that avoid this one.
