Ever watch a very young child try and tell a joke that is beyond his, or her, sophistication? 

It's full of stops and starts and usually, the punch line is ruined. 

I felt the same way watching Drowning Mona. 

Skip a stone across water and you approximate the depth of this attempt at an ensemble comedy. 

There are some slightly successful attempts at humor, but they only serve as window dressing. 

There is a running gag about the town, Verplanck, N.Y., being a test town for the then new Yugo. 

Everyone drives a Yugo, differentiating their cars with personalized license plates. 

Even the Police chief drives one. 

There is a certain sublimeness to the image of a lights and siren decked out Yugo skittering its way through the town streets. 

There also is a running gag about one of the characters, Jeff, missing a hand and how it occurred. 

It pokes gentle fun at the notion of urban legends. 

It turns out the truth is more horrifying than any legend. 

There are some sight gags that pop up as well, such as Mona's tombstone, which reads "demoted", instead of devoted. 

Still, The core of the story maintains the flatness of a still pond. 

The lynchpin of the film falls on the redundant and sporadic scenes involving Mona (Midler). 

Each scene with her is the same: scream at someone, hit someone, then scream some more. 

There's no uniqueness or modulation to her or explanation for her meanness. 

Anyone off the street could have played the role, such as it is. 

The other characters are walking cardboard cutouts. 

Each one is defined by one trait and no further attempt is made at deeper characterization. 

There is a burly, female car mechanic, so of course, there is a forced lesbianism gag. 

Mona's son, Jeff (Marcus Thomas) is a simpleton, hence you can predict his dialogue before it even plods its way from his mouth. 

Chief of Police Rash (Devito) likes Broadway musicals and loves his daughter. 

There's nothing more to him. 

Elle, the chief's daughter (Campbell), is bland personified, a dutiful girl with no higher aspiration than to have a child and be married. 

Mona's husband Phil (Fichtner) Jeckle and Hydes from shirking coward to reptilian letch. 

Bob (Affleck), Elle's betrothed, and business partner to Jeff, is a mumbling, obvious dullard. 

There is no contrast to any of the characters. 

By having at least one character with some wit, or wits, to serve as counterpoint to the others, perhaps Steinfeld's attempt at satirizing a small town infested with ambitionless people might have come off better. 

Ostensibly a murder mystery, Drowning Mona gives you almost all the clues immediately, then lets you sit back and feel superior as you watch the cast of paper people fumble their way to finding the killer, who could be anyone due to Mona's loving manner with everyone on town. 

Even that aspect of the film fails, throwing in a convenient, ridiculous and unsatisfying wrap to things. 

It's been a while since I walked away from a movie theater in an angry mood. 

What makes it all the more remarkable is that I rarely remember a comedy making me so angry for wasting my time at it's ineptitude. 
