One would think that David Duchovny, star of the cult favorite "X-Files" would be very careful in choosing his leading man cinema roles.

At least one would hope so.

One would be seriously incorrect. 

Eugene Sands (Duchovny) is a surgeon so dedicated to his craft that he becomes addicted to amphetamines to stay awake and work more.

It turns out to be a bad plan when he loses a patient and his license while under the influence. 

Ten months later, in a seedy bar to score synthetic heroin, the doctor gets a chance to ply his trade when assassins gun down a customer.

Using a plastic water bottle and bar tubing, Sands operates and saves his life. 

Smalltime hoodlum Raymond Blossom (Timothy Hutton) is impressed with the cutlery skills on his associate.

He kidnaps and then offers down-and-out Eugene a position in his organization. 

Blossom needs a doctor to patch up gunshot victims that would be problematic at a hospital.

Sand's temptation is that this will give him a chance to practice medicine again albeit illegally, big chunks of cash to fuel his habit and close proximity to the gangster's womanfriend Claire (Angelina Jolie), this film's babe factor. 

The would-be big time operator is desperately in need of help.

On the run from Russian mobsters (the bad guys that seem to be all the rage in this year's films) and trying to cut a pirate software deal with the Chinese Mafia, Blossom is surrounded by blood. 

After a few medical misadventures, the physician grows disenchanted with his employment.

An encounter with a couple of psycho surfer dudes who threaten to blow him away unless he "fixes" their dead buddy cements his feeling that he is in the wrong line of work.

When the FBI visits and forces him to become an informant, there is no question that he needs to be somewhere else. 

Oddly enough, these seem like they could be exciting scenes.

The film disproves that assumption. 

Then a bunch of other uninteresting things happen.

Writing this only two days after seeing the film, its a struggle to remember the events.

You can take that as a solid lack of recommendation. 

For all the coolness that Duchovny exhibits in "X-Files", it's a surprise that his big screen presence is so lacking in charisma.

The doctor is particularly bland and dull.

Even the cold turkey bit which is rife with dramatic possibilities come across as banal.

A little chocolate and minor sweats get him through heroin withdrawal.

Like virtually everything else in the film, it's a missed opportunity.

The Fox Mulder detachment doesn't work here. 

Oscar-winner Hutton's manic mobster is much more difficult to get a handle on.

Played partially for comedy and partially as crazed killer, Blossom almost becomes real, but then sinks into goofiness.

Most of the time Hutton looks as if he's searching for his character and coming up empty. 

Jolie also makes a few false moves towards creating a three-dimensional human being before giving up and turning into scenery.

The most interesting aspect of her performance is watching her pouty lips threaten to take over the screen. 

The rest aren't any better.

Michael Massee's eccentric FBI agent never revs up.

One of Blossom's henchmen steals a few moments of the show as a quirky gunman reminiscent of Val Kilmer's Doc Holliday in "Tombstone".

His two-gunned blasting as he does a bizarre dance is the high point of the film.

But thatseconds isn't worth sitting through the otherminutes. 

First time film director Andy Wilson (known for his work on the British television series "Cracker") appears to be attempting to jump on the "Pulp Fiction" bandwagon.

The best of these movies combine a sense of style and flash with significant substance.

The second-rate ones concentrate on just one of these aspects.

"Playing God" does neither well. 

The basic idea of the film is solid.

And then it goes nowhere.

Even worse, it plods back and forth, up and down a long and winding road before it ends up nowhere.

Fox fails yet again in his search for intelligent life. 

(After overyears of writing this column, Michael Redman is still shocked when good actors and a sound premise combine to create a wretched film. 

You'd think he'd learn.

Lesson plans can be sent to mredman@bvoice.com) [ This appeared in the /97 "Bloomington Voice", Bloomington, Indiana.

Michael Redman can be reached at mredman@bvoice.com ] 
