For a good ten years or so, super cool Chow Yun Fat has enjoyed god hood status in the Hong Kong Action Scene.

Now, he has followed in the footsteps of Director John Woo, (who launched Chow's super stardom in the acclaimed 'A Better Tomorrow') by moving to Hollywood.

I had some reservations about this move and it would seem I was right to have them. 

Chow plays a hitman who is doing jobs in order to repay a debt.

His final job requires him to kill a policeman's seven year old boy.

This he refuses do and runs.

However, he is forced into a violent confrontation when his family are threatned and replacement killers are brought in to do the job. 

Cue aroundminutes of various and quite frankly tedious shoot-outs which take place in various locations.

Some thought had gone into making them a bit different but unfortunately they end up being just plain boring.

The car wash scene, I found myself laughing at how stupid it looked.

Tut tut.

The emphasis during the constant action seemed to be on the accompanying music, (I could have sworn one piece was ripped out of a Bruckheimer movie) and not on the content.

Mia Sorvino (a passport forger) is dragged into the affay and also provides a lame love interest as well as being rather handy with a gun. 

Director Antoine Arqua has clearly not observed Chow's excellent acting capabilties and simply requires him to mutter a few lines of broken english and look flash as he stands and shoots.

Chow's trademark of twin pistol shooting is saved for the finale (which in fairness is quite good) and there's not even a toothpick in site.

And as for making Chow shoot like a cop, well that's damned unforgiveable. 

To round up, The Replacement Killers is a pretty darned lame first outing for Chow.

It would appear he has left Asia for aminute pop video.

This is not what we wanted at all, considering John Woo was the exec producer. (did he have NO say so at all?)

Watch 'The Killer' again and weep at the difference. 

Review by Chris Hill.

"There's room at the top, they are telling you still, but first you must learn how to smile as you kill, if you want to be like the folks on the hill." 
