Everyone knows that old rule, ' Never work with children and animals. ' 

In this latest horror flick Mimic case, it's' Never work with children and genetically enhanced killer animals' instead, as Mimic features both of these and succeeds in doing nothing except mildly engaging the audience. 

The film begins in New York, where we see children dying from a mysterious disease, which is being carried by cockroaches. 

Dr. Susan Tyler (Sorvino) creates a genetically enhanced bug (the ' Judas' breed), however, which is designed to kill all cockroaches. 

The bug does it's job, the cockroaches all die, and the terror is gone. 

' Three years later ' appears on the screen, and we discover that the Judas breed is back, bigger than ever, and ready to kill. 

The spin on this bug, however, is that it can mimic it's predator, and in this case.... it's humans. 

That should teach us for squishing all those bugs. 

What should be a roller coaster ride with bugs everywhere, tons of gory deaths and some massive set pieces instead turns out to be a rather subdued, almost boring movie which plods along at a very slow pace. 

Perhaps the movie was trying to be thought provoking, and trying to avoid the ' Predator ' type movie it could easily have become. 

If it is, then the director and writers have made the wrong move, because this is perfectly suited to be an all out action fest. 

The director, who bought us Cronos, a far superior film, directs the film in a calm, and frankly dull movie. 

There are few exciting sequences, instead just a lot of people talking. 

If the dialogue was intelligent, then it would be all right, but it's sadly babbling nonsense. 

In fact, the script is embarrsingly weak, and the characterizations not much better.Sorvino and company are as 2D as characters come, with the script not bothering to develop them. 

There is some action in this film, but it's directed in such an annoying way, it's just infuriating to watch. 

The camera cuts all over the place, disoreitating the audience, and instead of involving the audience in the action, it merely alienates them. 

The peformances are O.K, if slightly below average. 

Sorvino is O.K, although she's not very good at conveying terror, or anything emotion really. 

The supporting cast are all sterotypes, with characters such as a big black security guard with a foul mouth, a geeky scientist with spectacles, and what could be the most stereotypical mexican ' old timer ' ever. 

Their reasonable good fun, however. 

Mimic, then, may fail with it's story, pacing and characters, but the film does look good. 

Like Dark City, Mimic is a definite case of style of content. 

It may be a bit too gloomy for it's own good, but the sets look nice, and parts of the film are directed well. 

But looks aren't good enough to save Mimic from the depths of mediocre, somewhere where it shouldn't really belong. 

A good opportunity, then, wasted. 

A shame. 
