Movies based on video games, such as Street Fighter or Mario Bros., have never generated much interest at the box office.

But when the first Mortal Kombat movie came out in 1995, it did surprisingly well.

With a simple story, a pulsating soundtrack, and lots of awesomely choreographed fight scenes, the movie moved quickly and displayed lots of energy.

It got my vote for 'the movie where I expected the least and got the most'.

And, if you haven't had the opportunity, I would definitely recommend that you see it on video. 

In the world of Mortal Kombat, based on the popular arcade game, dark forces from Outworld try to infiltrate Earth's realm with the ulimate goal of total conquest and the destruction of humanity.

The Mortal Kombat refers to a competition, fought by human mortals against Outworld's minions, which if won, will guarantee Earth's safety for another generation.

MK2 picks up almost immediately after the humans return victoriously from competition. 

Despite their victory, however, a gateway has somehow opened, and Outworld continues in its quest to conquer Earth.

Outworld's warriors include an impressive collection of fighters, including Shao Kahn, Mintoro (a centaur), Sheeva (a four-armed ogre), and Sindel.

Earth's mortal warriors, under the leadership of the benevolent God, Lord Rayden, includes Liu Kang, Princess Kitana, Sonya Blade and Jax, who must fight against Outworld's forces. 

It's an easy enough premise, but unfortunately (very unfortunately), the writers try to do too much with the movie.

It is only a video game, after all, but the on-screen version tries to go beyond it's comic book boundaries by adding depth, a conceptualization of self-worth, and worst of all, a love story.

This becomes very awkward, because all of the players are fighters and nothing more.

They are likable and impressive when they are showcasing their martial arts and fighting skills, but look extremely awkward and uncomfortable when they are required to actually act.

This becomes embarrassingly apparent, for example, as the movie tries to develop a romantic bond between Liu Kang and Princess Kitana. 

The original MK was smart in letting the players do what they do best.

They spoke little, but fought a lot.

Thus, the movie was easy to digest.

However, MK2 tries to give these players a certain amount of depth, an element that was lacking in the first movie, but the attempt here fails miserably.

This uneasy feeling is readily apparent, for example, whenever you hear Lord Rayden speak.

Not only does he talk in riddles and offer enigmatic (e.g. useless) advice, but he speaks so slowly as if to simulate infinite wisdom. 

Try reading this half as fast, and you'll hear what I mean. 

But the movie is not a complete fatality. 

Fight scenes are well-choreographed, highlighted by terrific acrobatics and agility.

And players of the game will be rewarded with the inclusion of practically every character from the video game, although their screen time amounts to nothing more than a cameo.

Even if you're not familiar with the video game, each fighter has their own costume and unique weaponry to easily differentiate themselves.

But it's just too little of what movie-goers and especially fans of the game will expect. 

Oddly, the inclusion of the human element actually pollutes the purity of the Mortal Kombat essence.

And the poor acting results in a muddled movie that offers the viewing audience little chance for survival.

(I am now talking very slowly as if to simulate infinite wisdom).

Rent the first one, but the sequel is for Kombat fans only. 
