Ugh.

That about sums this movie up.

Just, ugh. 

The original Godzilla movies are somewhat of a cult classic, and when reviewing the previous films, each film had a certain degree of intelligence.

And that was the reason they found such an enviable cult following; in spite of bad special effects, horrible dubbing, and a man in a lizard suit, they maintained a certain degree of... how to put this?... dignity?

Not quite the word I'm looking for.

You understand, right?

And inyears, Godzilla has maintained that degree of 'whatever'. 

Leave it to America to screw the whole thing up. >From the 'geniuses' that brought us "Independece Day", arguably the WORST sci-fi movie of all time, to ruin whatever reputation Godzilla had.

While they do bring us eye-popping special effects that will amaze you, they lost what was at the center of all the original Godzilla movies--a storyline. 

Summing up the movie is simple.

Heck, I can do it in one sentence: Giant lizard attacks a giant city and a bunch of nobodies stop it.

Simple as that. 

Matthew Broderick stumbles over his lines, and it's hard to picture Hank Azaria in any role besides his classic dog-walking character on the television show "Mad About You".

The dialogue seems to be improvized, almost as if there was no rehearsel done at all.

I can see the scene on the set right now. 

"All right!"
We spent all of this money making big special effects, and we've gotta get this movie out by summer or it's going to bomb in our faces.

So, you actors just say what ever comes to the top of your head, all right?

Make up something, m'kay?

Good.

ROLL FILM!! ""
The special effects are enough to keep you interested through one viewing, and some of the cinemtography is well-done (the scene with the black umbrellas comes to mind).

Still, an hour into it, you will become antsy, wondering how long they can drag it out.

And drag it out they do!! 

I have to laugh.

The slogan for the film is, "Size does matter".

I think they cut this too short.

It SHOULD read, "Size does matter."
Acting does not. ""