At first I was intrigued by the strange cast and odd creatures on the Galaxy Quest trailer, but that was before I saw the film.

Now my view has completely changed.

It's time to embrace for impact, because this is a very bumpy ride.

The story begins with the cast of Galaxy Quest including: Jason Nesmith (Tim Allen), Alexander Dane (Alan Rickman), Gwen Demarco (Sigourney Weaver) signing autographs at a convention.

They meet fans who dress up in costumes, fans who worship the ground they walk on, and a group of aliens called Thermians who believe that they are the ultimate saviors against the dreaded alien colony lead by Sarris (Robin Sachs).

Of course they are unaware of this until they actually begin performing their duties, and meet the ugly aliens themselves.

Thus begins the long adventure to help save the Thermians.

The movie plays like a really bad Star Trek episode, in fact it's worse.

I don't even think Trekkies will appreciate this weak spoof, because quite frankly it's just not funny.

All the jokes are basically collected observations from the series.

One such continuous joke involves a simple crew member who believes he will die in space, because no extra on the TV show ever lives, as proven in the Star Trek series.

Creative jokes like this may seem like a clever idea, but not when they are used to death.

A person can only take so much.

We do not need to be tortured, especially when you have to pay for it.

It's pretty bad when even Tim Allen is pitiful.

It's not like I expected an Oscar worthy performance form him, but a few laughs would have been helpful.

Speaking of acting,fine talents were wasted as well. 

Sigourney Weaver was here to show cleavage, well at least it worked.

It's pretty bad when the only entertaining value of the film is cleavage.

It just shows you how disgraceful the film really is.

Alan Rickman however was not so lucky.

After his last hit (Dogma) he embarrasses himself by doing this sloppy mess.

It's just a shame to see talented actors and actresses throw their ability away.

When the film couldn't get any worse, thankfully some nice special effects pop up.

Like many big blockbusters (Armageddon, The Haunting to name a few) they rely heavily on effects to help boost the film's box office results.out oftimes it works, but unfortunately we have to shell out hard earned money and suffer through this junk.

When will it stop? 

I am getting tired of being suckered into seeing such trash.

It may look fine and dandy, but we need to at least have a story.

Is that too much to ask?

Obviously it is.

When Galaxy Quest finally ends, it literally crash lands.

Aside from the impressive looking creatures from Industrial Light And Magic, it's an embarrassment to the cast, and it's embarrassing to the science fiction genre.

It's not the least bit fun, nor was it entertaining. 

The only place where this movie belongs is to infinity and beyond. 
