Here is a movie that sadly follows the Hong Kong-recipe of moviemaking and storytelling to the letter. 

These kinds of movies are marked by an eye-opening sequence that introduces us to the main characters; a life-and-death plot in which these characters become involved; the inclusion of a host of inconsequential characters; ridiculous subplots, and sunglass-wearing henchmen.

That is not to say that I don't like Hong Kong influenced movies; however, it is quite obvious that these moviemakers haven't a clue that the American filmgoer needs more than hip-hop-talking thugs and stupid sight gags. 

Observe the opening sequence.

A band of hitmen are about to storm an apartment, led by Melvin (Mark Wahlberg) and Cisco (Lou Diamond Phillips). 

They are waiting for their partner to cut off the power so that they can storm the apartment with the help of infrared goggles.

However, their partner is unsure of which cable to cut.

He is undecided.

This happens for aboutseconds.

The audience finds some humor in his foolishness.

The lights suddenly go out.

Cisco is surprised and says: "Whoa... let's go!"

And they storm the apartment in a very nicely executed sequence. 

The Big Hit of the title refers to a kidnapping that happens a quarter of the way through the film.

Needing cash, Cisco devises a plan to kidnap the daughter (China Chow) of wealthy Japanese industrialist Jiro Nishi.

However, the daughter is also the god-daughter of Paris (Avery Brooks), who is Cisco's and Melvin's boss.

Infuriated and insufferable, Paris commands Cisco to uncover the mastermind of the kidnapping.

During his 'investigation', Cisco singles out Melvin as the ringleader, and Paris orders his capture and execution.

Melvin must now find a way to stay alive. 

By the way, do you know how the investigation takes place?

Cisco's partner makes the ransom phone call believing that his call will not be traced because of a Trace Buster that prevents tracing.

But, Mr. Nishi has a Trace Buster Buster.

To counter that, Cisco's partner has a Trace Buster Buster Buster.

But Nishi has a Trace Buster Buster Buster Buster.

And so on... 

There is no doubt that this is an interesting world in which they live.

And there are lots of issues that we'd like to know more about.

How does Melvin justify his profession to his fiancee?

What goes on among this clique?

Why is Cisco at odds with Melvin?

There is actually a lot of potential material that could have been explored, but it seems that no effort is made to go in that direction, and instead we are given a not-so-engrossing plot filled with one-liners, silly sight gags, extraneous sub-plots and tomfoolery. 

And, I haven't even mentioned his financee's visiting parents who want them to separate, nor Melvin's mistress, nor the pimple-faced video clerk demanding the return of an overdue video and on and on and on.

If The Big Hit signals the future of Hong Kong style movies that are made for American audiences, then shoot me now. 
