Michael Richards leaves his spot as Kramer on the infamous Seinfeld TV sitcom for a stint as a lanky, goofy best friend to Jeff Daniels' lawyer character in this ill-fated, and unfunny, "comedy". 

Richard the actor (Richards) has to take the place of Charles the lawyer (Daniels) in a real court case, after Charles is left unintelligible from a night of heavy drinking at his bachelor party. 

The film follows the antics of the two men as they try to get away with their tomfoolery. 

This movie did not make me laugh once. 

Perhaps it was because I was tired when I watched it. 

Perhaps. 

Perhaps it was because I had seen Richards perform most of the same schtick a thousand times on Seinfeld. 

Perhaps. 

Perhaps it was because the movie just wasn't funny. 

Absolutely. 

The lack of humour wasn't the only issue that I had with this film either. 

The movie attempts to weave a couple of love stories through its vision, but unfortunately, they are also lacking in conviction, believability and credibility. 

They are contrived and appear to be placed into the story for convenience sake. 

The actors were all adequate enough in their roles, but the problem didn't lie in the acting. 

I wish I could find one good reason for you to see this waste of time, but I can't.

Unless of course, you need something playing on your TV set while you waste some time around the house. 

Overall, this movie stinks. 

On the good side, Charlize Theron is darn cute, and the movie is no longer then 90 minutes. 

On the bad side, this movie is not funny, interesting or enjoyable in any which way possible. 

A person wouldn't even enjoy his nachos while watching this emptiness. 

Please skip it. 

Little Known Facts: Jonathan Lynn earned a degree in law from Cambridge before becoming an actor/director. 

Charlize Theron grew up on a farm outside Benoni, South Africa, as the only child. 

At the age of 18 her mother made her go to Los Angeles to try a career in the movie industry. 

She came to LA without knowing anyone in the city but after two weeks when she was standing in line on Hollywood Boulevard an agent gave her his card. 

After eight months in LA she got her first part. 

Since then she has taken acting lessons and her career has skyrocketed, specifically in DEVIL 'S ADVOCATE (8/10). 

Charlize was narrowly beat out by Elizabeth Berkley for the lead role in the "movie", SHOWGIRLS. 

She was quoted as saying "it was like I had some guardian angel".
