Every now and then, reviewers are faced with the films that are hard to be properly reviewed. 

Most of the time it happens with films that leave so overwhelming impact, either good or bad, that in the end reviewers must work hard to express his thoughts or feelings. 

But, sometimes it can happen for rather trivial reasons. 

I LOVE TROUBLE happened to be one of such occasions for the author of this review. 

The impression left by the film wasn't overwhelming-on the contrary, there were hardly any impression at all, since I had real trouble keeping myself awake while watching it. 

Which surprise me to this day, because the movie theatre was full, I was close to sound speakers, the show wasn't late and I didn't lack sleep before the show. 

Such things happen very rarely to me, and, after many years, the closest thing to solution to this mystery is probably the quality of the film itself. 

The plot revolves around two rival Chicago reporters-old Peter Brackett (Nick Nolte) and young, aspiring Sabrina Peterson (Julia Roberts). 

Two of them are assigned to cover the train collision. 

As soon as they meet, they start scooping each other, but during the process they both discover sinister plot involving cancerogenic milk, and also the romantic feelings they have for each other. 

The plot in this film is rather secondary to its real raison d'tre-romantic pairing reminiscent of classical screwball comedies starring Spencer Tracy and Katharine Hepburn. 

Movie author, director and screenwriter Charles Shyer, who had some experiences with turning the screwball spirit into modern setting with FATHER OF THE BRIDE, tries again, this time pairing old Nick Nolte with young Julia Roberts. 

However, although there is some chemistry between the two, soon it stops to arouse any interest. 

It probably happens due to poorly executed genre mix, that collides light-hearted romantic comedy with rather uninteresting plot suitable to pure action thrillers. 

Shyer as director fails to make the proper transition between the two, and fails in both areas, making the story cliched and predictable. 

The end result is rather forgettable effort, which convinced me not to watch movie again. 

I'll give it the benefit of the doubt, though. 
