Sometimes, when I decide to write a short story or a poem, I think of a title first, and then think of a subject to go with it. 

It seems that the makers of Disturbing Behavior had a similar train of thought when it came to the title sequence. 

I wouldn't be surprised if a couple of guys got together and created the opening credits, and then someone saw it and made up a story to go along with it. 

The title sequence is so good, so ominous and original, that it had me engrossed before the picture even began. 

Of course, my attention dwindled shortly into the film. 

Disturbing Behavior, like so many thrillers, starts off interesting and ends up laughably ridiculous. 

It's a teen horror film with no interesting violence or sex. 

It's a suspense film with no suspense. 

It's an Evil Small Town story with no story to speak of. 

It's a disaster, a listless and uninspired disaster, that just barely misses one-stardom because of a few good sequences, a mercifully short running time, and one terrific set of opening credits. 

Our main man is a fellow named Steve Clark, blandly played by Jimmy Marsden. 

He moves to a small town with his family after, tragically, his brother shoots himself. 

Steve is very upset about the untimely death of his brother; we learn this through strange home-video like nightmares that he has occasionally. 

The big trial for Steve is, of course, to fit in at school and make new friends. 

Marsden looks like your stereotypical jock down to the last detail, so he seems a poor casting choice for a social reject. 

As a social reject, he falls in with some pretentious dope-smoking philosophers, Gavin (Nick Stahl) and Rachel (Katie Holmes). 

Gavin informs Steve that the local group of jocks, known as the Blue Ribboners, are actually a bunch of zombies, assimilating new members into their group, while sporadically killing innocent people. 

So, it's up to our group of mismatched protagonists to 1) solve the mystery, and 2) do something about it. 

By the end of it all, something has happened and things have been explained, but the film still doesn't make any sense. 

Disturbing Behavior was written by Scott Rosenberg. 

I've seen his name around recently (he was one of the toucher-uppers on the Armageddon script), and I imagine that, for the most part, he knows what he's doing when it comes to screenwriting. 

He did, however, have a complete lapse in judgement when he got the idea for this film, and then decided to actually take the time to write it out. 

Evil Small Town films are pretty common (the last one, Phantoms, is also a dismal failure), but it takes a lot of skill to make the formula work. 

Rosenberg's script is a complete mess, lacking in even the most basic attempts at characterization. 

And it makes no sense, nor is their any purpose when things are finally "explained." 

There is supposed to be an element of surprise when we see what is happening to the jocks, but the film never explains exactly what *is* happening. 

They get strapped to chairs, a microchip is inserted into their eyes, and--poof--they become sex-crazed, superviolent, machine-like creatures. 

The doctor responsible for all this, Dr. Caldicott (Bruce Greenwood), must be pretty nuts for thinking that this kind of behavior is a step up from the way high school jocks actually behave (or, perhaps, this is the only realistic element in the film). 

Much of the writing is simply bad, and Rosenberg has no intuition when it comes to the way high school kids act. 

In one terrible scene, Gavin explains to Steve all of the high school cliques, while pointing them out in the cafeteria. 

Up front, I should say that, in four years of high school, I did not eat in the cafeteria even once. 

That aside, the various social groups he points out are general, uninteresting, and poorly-shown. 

For instance, he points to the "nerds," who are all wearing glasses and playing with their laptops. 

It's such an obvious cliche that I can't believe Rosenberg even bothered. 

Most of the dialogue is forced (no one says, "Bite me!" anymore), and none of the scenes have any degree of wit. 

This picture is not inspired, and most scenes flop from one to the other, with no sense of momentum or energy. 

The blame for this can be placed on director David Nutter, who apparently likes his films dry. 

Horror films should at least exploit violence, but this one is shockingly timid. 

There are a few good scenes, though, such as an interesting trip through an insane asylum (this is, however, the most forced scene in the film, for how our heroes get there or why they bother are things we never learn). 

I also liked the school janitor character, played by William Sadler. 

He has a few lines that are surprisingly thought-provoking. 

The acting is largely a waste of talent. 

Marsden is, as I said, bland (thought not particularly bad). 

Bruce Greenwood is shamelessly wasted. 

Stahl and Holmes both show they have talent, but the direction isn't good enough to hone in on their skills (Stahl's performance seems more like a parody of high school potheads). 

None of these characters expand beyond their one dimension, and, frankly, watching cardboard cut-outs of human beings run down hallways while screaming just isn't all that cool. 

Disturbing Behavior is a wreck of a film, and it started out a wreck before shooting even began. 

I'm surprised there were producers who read this script and thought that it would make a good film, or that it would make a lot of money at the box office. 

It's not boring, or even blatantly awful, but it's an uninspired lump of a film. 

It sure starts off nicely, but the regression into total absurdity is so consistent that the very last scene is outright laughable. 

So, if you go to see this film, take my advice: appreciate the credit sequence, and pray it never ends.
