The swooping shots across darkened rooftops suggest a very Tim Burton movie, but, alas, no caped crusader descends to save this film.

Instead, it's a skeletal housemaid (Julia Roberts) who must bear witness to this unfortunate retelling of "Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde."

For a few, fleeting, maddening moments, director Stephen Frears (DANGEROUS LIAISONS) gets everything just right--the tone, the colors, the characters; all the ingredients to make a most-powerful potion out of Valerie Martin's best-selling novel.

Yet it fizzles too quickly; the volatile mixture losing potency from the very first scene. 

Casting is a large part of the problem.

The story all but collap-ses around Ms. Roberts--she doesn't have the range for this kind of drama.

Her accent also comes and goes, though it's nowhere near as glaring as the total lack of chemistry between her and co-star John Malkovich.

(He looks the same in both of his roles--an incredible fact that's missed by everyone in the story!)

The very British supporting cast--including Michael Gambon and George Cole--gives credibility to the smaller parts.

Glenn Close also appears as a Madam that the Good Doctor calls upon.

Her performance is as close to intentional camp as the movie ever gets and--as a bonus--offers a likely peek at her upcoming Cruella De Ville in the live-action 101 DALMANTIONS. 

The biggest botch in MARY REILLY is suspense: there is none.

No terror, no tension; nothing.

Without any weight, wit, or wonder to propel the story, the viewer is left with little more to do than pay attention to the period detail, a few buckets of blood, and Stuart Craig's fabulously dreary production design.

All of which gets old after about an hour, at which point I recommend leaving. 

(The pacing in the second-half is especially abominable.

If you do stick it through, your sole reward is a half-hokey special effect depicting the infamous transformation.) 

Mr. Frears reportedly recut his film several times, missing several release dates in the process.

(Obviously, no one advised him to throw up his hands and just turn the whole damned thing over to Mel Brooks.

Blucher!)

MARY REILLY is the second Robert Louis Stevenson story of the month, after MUPPET TREASURE ISLAND.

Perhaps Mr. Frears should consult with Brian Henson on future projects.

I daresay that even Ms. Piggy is a better choice for a certain roles than Julia Roberts.

And she does have a great chop! 
