We could paraphrase Michelle Pfieffer's character in DANGEROUS MINDS and say that BEYOND RANGOON starts with an "A." That's fair enough.

All movies, like all school children, should be given the benefit of the doubt.

The chance to succeed.

After all, we like to think that the right combination of talent and effort can do wonders.

Mountains can be moved, and good movies can be made. 

Yeah right. 

Children fail, as do films.

As does director John Boorman's latest. 

The success of BEYOND RANGOON hinges on the believability of Patricia Arquette (ED WOOD, TRUE ROMANCE) as the busty Westerner-in-peril wandering about 1988 Burma without a passport.

Though we can stomach the mild plot contrivances that get her there, it's a tougher task to overlook the actress. 

She's a lightweight. 

As the first scene (with narration!) demonstrates, she doesn't have nearly enough range for the emotions that her character--a mother fleeing the memories of a murdered husband and son--is supposed to show.

She may give a stronger performance than, say, Keanu Reeves in A WALK IN THE CLOUDS, by not by much. 

BEYOND RANGOON is a very physically appealing film, thanks to the practiced craftsmanship of John Boorman (DELIVERANCE, EXCALIBUR, HOPE AND GLORY).

He keeps the narrative moving, no matter how muddy the story--or the heroine--gets.

Why he chose Arquette remains a mystery, though.

Maybe he was thinking that the dramatic weight of the story would overcome any casting deficiencies.

But even after an hour of half-stated political statements and murky mass killings, we still don't know enough of what's happening in this country to feel distressed for the characters or their situations.

Empty exoticism. 

The technical credits in BEYOND RANGOON are a curious mix, combining lush jungle photography with bad blue-screen work.

Also odd is the obvious dubbing.

Done to make some of the foreign characters sound less foreign? 

And, is it my mistake, or do the same extras keep reappearing as different soldiers??

Doo doo doo doo.

[ "Twilight Zone" theme, or opinion of movie.

You be the judge. ] 

