Mr. Bean, a bumbling security guard from England is sent to LA to help with the grandiose homecoming of a masterpiece American painting. 

The first two words should have said enough to let you know what occurs during Bean's trip to LA, but if they didn't look out because you are in for a rather interesting if not odd ride. 

Heck depending on your humor you might end up laughing through the whole flick. 

Either way look out America Bean is coming. 

Well, what can really be said about this movie, there is very little discernible plot. 

That much is not hard to grapple with for it is a slapstick comedy. 

It achieves that goal rather admirably, but because it is that, the plot is just screaming for help. 

The whole premise that the movie is based on is to say the least flawed. 

The movie had its funny moments but there was no real story line other than something that could be thought up on a whim and carried through and in many causes ad-libbed as you went. 

Don't go into this movie expecting and theatrical masterpiece. 

But if this form of humor floats your boat then you will truly enjoy this movie, even if you don't like slapstick style humor you will end up laughing because something's are just so stupid. 

The movie goes out and accomplishes what it aims, or so it seems. 

Now when you look at the acting in this movie you have to think about two things, first was there any real acting and how hard is it to act in the slapstick manner. 

Well, there was no real acting in this movie but some of the slapstick wasn't the easiest I am sure. 

I have to concede that Mr. Atkinson's acting in this movie is well done. 

Although the role isn't too demanding the slapstick is. 

I think that the character could have had a bit more dialogue, it would have added quite a bit to the overall effect of the movie. 

Now the rest of the actors in the movie, bad acting and poor casting. 

I think that the role opposite Bean could have been better, just seemed wrong for the movie. 

A different actor might have done a better job of it but I wont presume that wasn't what was trying to be achieved. 

One thing that I must say, simply to get if off my chest is that I think transferring a sitcom to TV usually produces rather disastrous results. 

TV shows should do just that stay on TV, it will probably save some producers from getting ulcers. 

I can only think of a couple examples of TV going to the big screen effectively, the best known of those would have to be Star Trek. 

Bean seriously fails to accomplish anything close to what that series gone movie achieved. 

Now another thing that I have to state again is this movie has narrowed its target audience fairly tightly. 

The form of humor in this movie will not be liked by most people, these people will think like I did that this movie is stupid and pointless. 

But if you like the TV show you might actually like this movie. 

But to be on the safe side I am opting to recommend you save your money and not go to see this movie. 

There are many movies that are truly worth seeing unlike this one. 
