My first exposure to the Nightmare on Elm Street series of films was not this one, but in fact the third installment (it was the first to gain a national theatrical release). 

I didn't see the first film until much later. 

So looking back, the original didn't hold a lot of great memories for me, since I didn't think too much of it when I initially saw it. 

Watching it now for a second time confirmed that it's an overrated horror film that ultimately makes no sense whatsoever. 

You all know the story by now: child murderer Freddy Krueger (Robert Englund) returns from the grave by haunting the dreams of the children of those who burned him alive years before. 

This first installment does an adequate job with it's low budget, but there's some absurd dialogue and conceptual problems with the story. 

Plus the movie's ending (understandably the result of the studio wanting the end of the film to have a "hook" for a sequel) renders the rest of the film pointless. 

And does anyone understand what happens to Nancy's mother at the end of this film? 

Don't get me wrong though... it's not as if a new generation of horror films have spurned me away from the classics. 

Most horror movies released today are just as inane as this film is. 

Horror is a difficult genre to pull off credibly, and A Nightmare on Elm Street just doesn't cut it. 

A Nightmare on Elm Street is available on DVD from New Line Home Video. 

It is available both as a single disc and as part of the Nightmare on Elm Street Collection box set. 

The film is presented in both pan and scan and it's original theatrical aspect ratio of 1.78:1 (although on the disc that comes in the box set, only a widescreen transfer is provided). 

The film has been digitally remastered and includes two options for audio: a mono mix and a new Dolby Digital 5.1 mix. 

Also included on the DVD is a full-length audio commentary track with writer/director Wes Craven, stars John Saxon and Heather Langenkamp, and the film's director of photography. 

Other extras include the "Jump to a Nightmare" feature (I'm sure you can figure that one out), the usual cast and crew bios (which are from the film's original press release kit, and notably leave out Robert Englund and Johnny Depp!), and the film's original theatrical trailer. 

Some DVD-ROM features are also included, but since I don't have DVD-ROM capabilities I can't really get into that. 

The commentary track is entertaining and informative, but nothing spectacular. 

The first thing of note is that it's the same commentary track that was on the special edition laserdisc from a few years ago. 

I'm not saying that's a negative thing, just pointing it out. 

Everyone seems enthusiastic about being there, with the possible exception of John Saxon, who just doesn't say much at all. 

Most of the time you'll forget he's even there. 

Everyone else talks really quietly though for some reason, as if because they're commenting on a scary movie that they need to stay as quiet as possible. 

The bonus disc with the boxed set called The Nightmare Series Encyclopedia features about 45 minutes worth of interviews relating to the first film of the series. 

Also included is the original theatrical trailer and two alternate endings to the film... however you can only access one easily. 

The other is hidden in what's called "the labyrinth", which might possibly be the most annoying feature of a DVD ever created. 

Basically, it's an interactive game of sorts where you wander through different Nightmare locations looking at objects which give you access to extra little snippets of footage, interviews, etc. Somewhere in the labyrinth is the second alternate ending to the film. 

Finding it though is both a chore and a bore. 
