Dr. Alan Grant (Sam Neill, "Jurassic Park") is becoming disillusioned. 

Paleontology is no longer the sexy science it once was since the Ingen Corporation cloned his subject matter.

His lectures bring people interested in his adventures on Isla Nubla rather than his research and funding dollars are drying up.

When the Kirbys (William H. Macy, "Fargo"; Tea Leoni, "The Family Man") ask him to be their guide for an anniversary flyover of Isla Sorna (the notorious Site B of "The Lost World") he's disdainful, but once they wave their checkbook, he reconsiders.

However the Kirbys haven't given Dr. Grant their real agenda in "Jurassic Park III." 

Of course, we, the audience, have been tipped off, given that the film begins by showing us Eric (Trevor Morgan, "The Patriot"), a young boy, and Ben (Mark Harelik, "Election") going for a paragliding adventure off that same island that goes awry (and looks like cheesy rear projection).

Grant's established back home with a new right hand man, Billy Brennan (Alessandro Nivola, "Love's Labour's Lost") on site at a dig in Montana sorely lacking funds.

He also pays a visit to old flame Dr. Ellie Sattler (Laura Dern, "Jurassic Park"), now married to another with a young son who calls Grant 'the dinosaur man' apparently for the sole purpose of dredging her up again for the film's poorly imagined finale. 

Grant takes Billy along on the Kirbys trip, which is really an illegal gambit to save their son, that young paraglider.

The couple aren't millionaires, making Grant's check bogus, and they're separated as well (Eric was with Amanda's new boyfriend, not that that makes much sense), meaning we're in for some gooey family dynamics while waiting for the dino dining.

The Kirbys hired hands (and obvious bait) are a threesome led by Mr. Udesky (Michael Jeter, "The Gift").

(Didn't anyone consider that casting Michael Jeter and William H. Macy together and not having them be related was a little odd?) 

As directed by Joe Johnston ("October Sky," "Jumanji") (Spielberg only produced this one) from a risible script by Peter Buchman and the "Election" team of Alexander Payne & Jim Taylor, "Jurassic Park III" is nothing more than a quickie monster flick with a couple of new dinos (a Spinosauraus, which goes head to head with the T-Rex, and Pteranodons).

The plot, as it were, is a series of coincidences combined with extreme leaps of faith and a trifecta of stupid cell phone tricks.

The effects are no longer new, and, as shot by television cinematographer Shelly Johnson, rather murky looking at times.

Film Editing by Robert Dalva ("October Sky") was presumably done by machete, to keep this down to aminute run time.

I know of no other reason to explain the ridiculous ending which features the survivors confronting a pack of raptors, then being saved by the most ludicrous of logic jumps within a few minutes. 'Original' music by Don Davis just repeats John Williams' original themes. 

While Neill and young Morgan attempt to inject some humor and humanity into the proceedings, the rest of the cast are plodding unexceptional. 

"Jurassic Park III" will probably provide some quick entertainment for those who go into it knowing what to expect, the same crowd who maybe liked "The Lost World: Jurassic Park." 


