I've noticed something lately that I've never thought of before. 

Pseudo-substance-Hollywood faking deep meanings in their films. 

Have you ever seen a movie that you really enjoyed, then when you look back, you realize there was something missing? 

More and more, filmmakers seem to be putting out well rehearsed, melodramatic films that evoke strong connotations of being a great film, but if you step aside and reflect on your movie going experience, you may just discover nothing more than elegantly presented fluff. 

I'm not trying to say CITY OF ANGELS is that bad. 

It had a lot going for it, but somewhere along the way, it faltered. 

Somehow, underneath the seemingly poetic beauty of it all, there was a gigantic hole somebody covered with iridescent performances and glossy cinematography. 

The predictable ending that shattered our hopes (even though we saw it coming) only added to the disappointment. 

But for over an hour, CITY OF ANGELS is well worth the time. 

Nicolas Cage is Seth, a guardian angel who, like hundreds (likely thousands or even millions) of other angels, spends eternity watching over the citizens of mortality; humans never aware of how much celestial intervention occurs in their life. 

Meg Ryan, in her most subdued performance yet, plays Maggie, a doctor who begins to ponder exactly who it is we're fighting against when we fight to keep someone alive. 

After losing a patient on the surgery table, these questions envelope Maggie, and Seth, the angel who was there to oversee the patient's transition into the afterlife, is immediately captivated by the doctor. 

He begins following and observing Maggie, falling more and more in love with her everyday. 

Angels, who we quickly learn are not and never were humans, can not experience human sensations such as taste and touch, but they do have the ability to make themselves seen to anyone they desire. 

Seth's adoration is too much to resist, and eventually he does appear to Maggie, quite regularly, although such a thing seems taboo among the angelic community. 

The angels are interestingly presented, all of them dressed in black and more reminiscent of hitmen than traditional glowing white entities, but it's a nice touch that never seems like a mere attempt at uniqueness. 

Cage is a wonderfully versatile actor (think FACE/OFF, RAISING ARIZONA, and IT COULD HAPPEN TO YOU-what a combo!) who slips into the role of a heavenly agent quite nicely but threatens sappiness more than once. 

It's nice to see Ryan pick up roles like this and the one in COURAGE UNDER FIRE. 

The two aren't very comparable to each other, but they both deviate from her usual "intelligently ditzy" romantic comedy roles, and it's an impressive side of Ryan movie goers rarely have the chance to enjoy. 

But even though the two leads do an impressive job, it is Dennis Franz who grabs us with his interpretation of a hospital patient who knows more than meets the eye. 

It's a shame that with so much going for it, CITY OF ANGELS falters so much in its final stages, leaving us with the realization that an emotionally incredible movie was out there, they just didn't know quite how to get to it. 

They struggle for an impacting conclusion and wind up with painful thud rather than an exhilarating high. 

Filmmakers should know your final impression will be the one you linger on, remember, and convey to others thru word of mouth, so after telling us for 60+ minutes that this film is a glorious masterpiece, they sure leave us with a disheartening taste of mediocrity in our mouths. 

Based on the German film WINGS OF DESIRE (that being the English title, of course), CITY OF ANGELS is ninety percent success, enough to make most people forgive its shortcomings, even the devastatingly disappointing ending. 

Most movie goers, the non-cynics anyway, will be too wrapped up in the surreal atmosphere to give criticism to that which needs to be criticized. 

Nonetheless, CITY OF ANGELS is beautifully captivating, which is probably enough to satisfy those poetic viewers who will appreciate a delve into rich emotional territories. 
