Starring Jim Carrey, Matthew Broderick, Leslie Mann, and Ben Stiller Review by Laurence Mixson([1]venom8@hotmail.com) A Fully Loaded Entertainment Review-Website Coming in July! >From Ace Ventura to Truman Burbank, Jim Carrey has run the whole gamut of comic, yet sympathetic, characters.

1996's The Cable Guy was supposed to be his big "breakthrough" role from zany humor into darker, more dramatic acting.

As most everyone knows, the results were, well, less-than-stellar. 

Not only did the film not do so hot at the box office, but it was also panned by critics.

As far as I know, Gene Siskel and I are the only ones willing to admit that we dug it. 

The first time I saw The Cable Guy, in theatres, I was in Super Critic-mode, and didn't really like it.

However, due to the fact that HBO shows the movie every single day, I've had time to lean back, relax, and take in the film. 

And to my surprise, it grew on me. 

The plot is rather simple: Broderick plays a guy named Steven who befriends his cable guy, played by Carrey, then is stalked by him when Steven tries to break off the relationship.

See, Steven's been having some problems with his girlfriend, Robin(Leslie Mann), and he doesn't think he has any more room in his life for a new friend.

Also, some of the cable guy's antics have been creeping him out. 

Carrey, as the cable guy, gives Steven various aliases, which later we find out are all tv characters: Larry Tate, Chip Douglas, Ricky Ricardo, etc. He apparently lives in his cable van, and while many critics didn't enjoy this newer, darker, less-manic performance from Carrey, I thought it was interesting and rather well-done. 

For me, its not the movie as a whole that's enjoyable, but rather several individual scenes: a karaoke jam at Steven's apartment, a medieval fight at a theme restaurant, and a bathroom beating(a la Liar, Liar), just to name a few.

Perhaps the fact that more of Carrey's humorous side comes out during these scenes is what makes them so funny.

And if you really want to see something, you've got to hear his version of Jefferson Airplane's "Somebody to Love", sung at the aformentioned karaoke jam. 

The Cable Guy has its bad spots, like most any movie.

I didn't particularly like Steven's girlfriend, and I felt that more focus should have been used on the relationship between Steven and his best friend.

Also, the ending, while having you fooled for a moment, is rather contrived, and somewhat dissapointing. 

Still, I found The Cable Guy to be a worthwhile venture; if you're at the video store and can't think of anything to rent, I suggest you try it out. 

Or if you have HBO, just wait till it comes on(you won't have to wait long.) 

Hell, that's what I do every day. 


