"Both my wife and daughter think I'm this gigantic loser."
And they're right. 

I have lost something.

I didn't always feel this sedated. ""
With that piece of dialogue, we are fully introduced to Lester Burnham (Kevin Spacey), a year old man trapped within his own life.

Lester works for an advertising agency.

His growing dissatisfaction with his job is only one of the mid-life crisis he is suffering.

Estranged from both his wife and his daughter, Lester starts to crack under the stress.

His life becomes nothing more than a series of mastubatory fantasies, and sullen apathy. 

Carolyn Burnham (Annette Bening), is the prototypical career woman / homemaker.

She carefully tends her rose garden, decorates her home with the best furnishings. 

But inside she is desperate.

Unsuccessful at her profession as a real estate agent, she drives herself into states of denial and self loathing that only feed her growing resentment towards her family. 

The third member of this anti-family is Jane Burnham (Thora Birch), Lester and Carolyn's daughter.

A young girl going through the typical stages of adolescence, but having to also come to terms with her families growing dysfunction. 

This funny (and frightening) slice of life is refreshingly simple.

Not one character is given less than is needed to identify him or her.

Some of the most telling characters are those that serve to highlight other characters. 

Most notably is Barbara Fitts (Allison Janney), the almost catatonic wife of Retired Marine Colonel Fitts.

She has almost no dialogue, and seems to be either recovering from a stroke or suffering from one.

Colonel Fitts (Chris Cooper) is an angry and frightened man.

His rage directed almost singularly at his son, Ricky (Wes Bentley) who has just moved with his family to the same neighborhood as the Burnham's.

In fact they are the next door neighbors. 

Anymore detail into the personalities of these marvelously diverse characters would deprive one of the many pleasures and surprises to be had in "American Beauty".

Alan Ball, who was the co-executive producer of the hit TV series "Cybil" and creator of the new sitcom "Oh Grow Up", has fashioned one of the most insightful and expertly tuned screenplays to have hit the screen in the past ten years.

Not one character in this film rings falsely. 

And the depth of personality in each, is achingly honest and insightful.

The plot detailing the last year in the life of a man as he tries to find his own self worth is so resoundingly cliched and at the same time original as to bring to mind such marvelous film work as "The Graduate" or "Lolita". 

Kevin Spacey turns in one of this years most pragmatic performances.

His Lester Burnham is an everyman caught up in the middle of a life that is spiraling into old age.

Finally unable to deal with the lost soul that he has become, Lester tries to return to his youth.

He quits his job (actually blackmailing his employer for one year's salary), starts smoking pot, fantasizes about his daughter's girlfriend Angela (Mena Suvari, in a marvelous performance here), starts working out, and finally takes a job at the local fast food outlet.

Mr. Spacey's performance is so remarkably subtle and ingenuous, that we can be certain that come Oscar® time, we can be assured to see him name among the five nominees. 

Annette Bening also turns in what may be the best performance of her career. 

Carolyn Burnham is a woman who has become so insecure as to be caught up in maintaining the facade of normalcy.

Unable to cope with her growing disillusionment, she forces herself to maintain her demeanor, driving her further and further into desperation, adultery and possibly murder.

Ms. Bening makes the character of Carolyn so compelling as to be identifiable to almost anyone.

The slow and methodical turn from happy home maker to charnel house Martha Stewart is too frightening to express in words. 

Thora Birch holds her own against the talents cast with her.

Jane Burnham is both an innocent girl caught up in what is a dysfunctional family, and a rebellious child ready to abandon them at any moment.

Her growing distrust and isolation from her family is something that many parents should view as a warning.

She is the prototypical trophy child.

When Carolyn praises her daughter after a performance by her cheerleading team ("I'm so proud of you, Honey."
You didn't screw up once! "), the bitterness and resentment are palpable."
Thora Birch is a young actress to watch. 

Praise must also go to Chris Cooper who brings yet another angry father role to life with depth and resonance.

Colonel Finn is a man in complete denial. 

His military upbringing masking a desire he is too repulsed to even comprehend. 

Wes Bentley as Ricky Finn is fine as the enigma.

The boy next door who may be more foe than friend.

A deceitful and calculating young man, whose voyeuristic proclivities mask a deeper and more profound understanding of life than any of the adults around him.

Mr. Bentley's performance is the one troublesome note in the film.

That is simply because the character is such a grand and complete liar, that one almost faults the performance for it. 

Director Sam Mendes handles all of the particulars of the cast and the settings with a sure and composed style that is neither intrusive nor subtle.

Scenes of Carolyn walking through the rain, carry an ominous fission that calls attention to the emotions of the character.

The subtle cinematography by Conrad Hall is wonderful, capturing the season in all of it's harsh beauty (Fall has never looked so inviting, yet depressing).

Every nuance of "American Beauty" begs it's audience to think and examine.

It is a film that will be discussed and debated for years to come.

And well it should, as it is simply one of this years best.


