Mimi Leder is probably best known for her stunning work as a director of the hit tv-show ER. 

Her mast famous episode, "Love's Labour Lost", dealt with the ordeal of Doctor Mark Greene as he tried his best to save the life of a pregnant mother and her child. 

The way she moved the camera and created tension throughout every scene was amazing. 

There was more excitement and adrenaline rushed suspense than just about any of Hollywood's big blockbuster movies. 

So it's only natural that Leder would get to direct her very own Hollywood blockbuster. 

And I have to say, after a shaky beginning, she does not disappoint. 

Peacemaker deals with the theft of nuclear weapons by terrorists, which is obviously nothing new. 

The first half hour goes into detail, way too much detail, about how the weapons are stolen. 

Despite a few good images, including a train collision and a very impressive explosion, none of this was very coherent. 

It's long and drawn out, and I would have settled with a more implausible beginning that would have moved the story along better. 

Once George Clooney and Nicole Kidman enter the picture, it begins to take off. 

George Clooney is an Air Force colonel with connections all over the world. 

He has a nice sarcastic wit and the rough edges that you expect from most Clooney characters. 

Nicole Kidman is head of a White House team on weapons smuggling. 

There is the usual flirtatious banter between the two, but that is dispensed with quickly. 

The story takes Clooney and Kidman across the globe, trying to figure out who has the weapons and where they are going with them. 

Clooney goes through bouts of sarcasm, frustration, determination, and revenge while Kidman works against her own insecurity and self-doubt. 

This is when Leder starts to show her true stuff. 

She starts us off with a nifty little car chase as an appetizer. 

Then we get Clooney doing heroics in and out of a helicopter. 

Then that leads us to the brilliant final showdown on New York City's crowded streets, and a madman with a nuke walking among them. 

Mimi Leder is a natural at creating suspense. 

She reminds me of Wolfgang Petersen in her ability to make the most routine action sequences exciting and breathtaking. 

Nicole Kidman is an intelligent female action hero. 

You're not gonna find her falling down so Clooney can come back to save her. 

George Clooney is a real movie star. 

Many of you may have hated him as Batman, but this guy is for real. 

He has a natural screen presence, and an ingratiating personality. 

He'll be around for a while. 

Dreamworks is off to a satisfying start with Peacemaker. 
