The love for family is one of the strongest driving forces in any man's life, especially for those who have fostered their family under precarious circumstances. 

Thematically in cinema, love for family has been used frequently and emphatically to highlight more abstract aspects of characters; it is rare, however, for it to develop as outstandingly as it does in Roberto Benigni's neo-classic drama, LIFE IS BEAUTIFUL. 

Through a central cast of father, mother, and son, Benigni demonstrates the wonderful, undying love that a family shares in the best of times and the worst of times. 

Life *is* beautiful for Guido Orefice (Roberto Benigni, directing himself here for the sixth time in his career), an Italian Jew, master con man, and aspiring waiter extraordinaire. 

Living in 1930's Italy, he lives a carefree life of good fortune; it is made even better when he happens upon a pretty schoolteacher named Dora (Nicoletta Braschi). 

Although Dora is already engaged, Guido manages to sweep her off her feet and persuades her to marry him instead; the two have a child named Joshua (Giorgio Cantarini). 

Unfortunately for the happy family, the Third Reich and its Nazi minions occupy Italy and imprison all Jews in work camps. 

It is after the movie takes this dramatic turn that the movie's theme of family love becomes the strongest. 

Although prior to this turning point Benigni plays Guido with a sort of goofy charm, he relaxes the role to ensure his son's happiness. 

Now, instead of awkwardly seducing the sweet Dora, he constantly reassures his son that everything will be all right. 

Benigni's performance is truly a well-rounded one, and certainly one of the more fluid turns all year. 

The supports are all strong as well, but the movie truly excels in its script. 

LIFE IS BEAUTIFUL is a self-proclaimed fable, one which tells its story in grand, two-part fashion. 

In certain parts it manages to sink to the level of a "Saturday Night Live" spinoff--a number of humorous skits connected by a token plot--but in the movie's second half the script's circular nature becomes admirably obvious. 

Characters make reprise appearances in fine form, and certain events which are intially curious become critically linked to the plot's outcome. 

In all, fans of foreign film will see this as a memorable motion picture, and novice movie-watchers may take this opportunity to see their first "artsy" film. 

LIFE IS BEAUTIFUL is an artsy movie by convention but easily accessible to everyone, and above all is a fine thematic picture. 
