Starring: Jason Schwartzman, Olivia Williams and Bill Murray Written by: Wes Anderson & Owen Wilson Directed by: Wes Anderson While watching Wes Anderson's Rushmore, it may be surprising to think that the role of Max Fischer, the film's anti-hero, was not written with Jason Schwartzman in mind.

The young actor, making his film debut as ayear old student at the exclusive Rushmore Academy is so perfect in the role that it comes as a shock that Anderson auditioned some two thousand other prospective stars before discovering Schwarztman. 

Schwartzman plays Max, a student who is more interested in his extra-curricular activities (such as writing edgy plays like "Serpico" and being president of the Rushmore Beekeepers) but sees his grades suffer as a result.

On the brink of being thrown out, he lands himself in even more hot water when he falls for first grade teacher Rosemary Cross (Olivia Williams) and enlists the help of millionaire acquaintance Herman Blume (the great Bill Murray) to build an aquarium (on Rushmore's baseball field) in her honour. 

Unfortunately for everyone involved, Blume finds that he has feelings for Miss Cross as well, which gets in the way of Max's plans to woo her. 

Max is one of the best-written characters we've yet seen in the 90s, and Schwartzman plays him to perfection in one of the finest comedy performances ever given by someone of his age.

As everyone else has probably already pointed out, he is reminiscent of a young Dustin Hoffman (although I was reminded more of Paul from "The Wonder Years", from a visual standpoint, at least).

Hopefully, if he avoids typecasting as weird, quirky loner-types he should earn himself a good career.

Bill Murray is his equal as Blume, displaying a depth we haven't yet seen from him.

While this isn't his best performance (that honour goes to Groundhog Day) he is still terrific here. 

Williams isn't given much to do except react to Schwartzman and Murray, but still does fine work. 

Rushmore seems to go just a little too long but, while it isn't a perfect film, it is a definate must-see for anyone who wants to see that rarity, an American coming-of-age film that actually works well without an excessive amount of sentimentality.

Anderson has created a modern classic with a star who should, with any luck, rise to even greater success. 
