It is hard to imagine that a movie which includes abortion and incest as prominent plot devices could be so sensitive, so delicate, so insightful and yes, even so enjoyable.

Somehow, THE CIDER HOUSE RULES manages to keep an even keel in the face of the harsh subject matter and allows a substantial amount of heart to shine through. 

Set in the 1940's, the film tells the story of a unique young man named Homer Wells (Tobey Maguire, RIDE WITH THE DEVIL).

An orphan, twice rejected as an infant by possible adoptive parents, he grows up in the care and under the tutelage of Dr. Wilbur Larch (Michael Caine, LITTLE VOICE), father figure to the orphans of St. Cloud, obstetrician or abortionist to the unhappily pregnant women who come there seeking his help. 

Figuring that as long as Homer was going to stay at the orphanage, he might as well be of use, Dr. Larch begins teaching him all he knows about obstetrics.

Soon Homer is delivering babies like a professional.

He refuses to perform abortions, instead wondering why the couples just didn't behave more responsibly.

Larch, too old and experienced to have such youthful ideals, marvels that Homer "continues to have such high expectations of people." 

Such is the result of an insulated upbringing.

Though skilled in certain medical procedures, Homer remains woefully naive and ignorant about most everything else.

He finally figures that in order to find his place in the world, he must go out into it. 

Befriending a young couple who had come to see Dr. Larch, he hitches a ride with them and parlays that into landing a job as an apple picker with a group of black migrant workers at the orchard where they lived.

Thus, Homer begins his worldly instruction, with new friend Candy Kendall (Charlize Theron, THE ASTRONAUT 'S WIFE) a willing tutor. 

Tobey Maguire is well cast yet again as an inherently good man who is seeking answers to life's questions... many of which he was unaware needed to be asked.

He demonstrates a quiet strength and thoughtful curiosity that is both warm and appealing. 

Michael Caine is, in a word, brilliant as the caring caretaker of these orphans, many of whom he helped to bring into the world.

Calling them "princes of Maine, kings of New England" in his ritualistic goodnight, Mr. Caine manages to communicate the love and commitment Larch has towards these children without becoming maudlin or saccharine. 

Delroy Lindo (A LIFE LESS ORDINARY) has many powerful moments as Mr. Rose, the strong and charismatic leader of the apple pickers whom Homer joins. 

Director Lasse Hallstrom (WHAT 'S EATING GILBERT GRAPE?) and screenwriter/novelist John Irving (THE WORLD ACCORDING TO GARP), who adapted his own work for this movie deserve much of the credit for the balanced approach to the sensitive subject matter.

Regardless of one's personal stand on the divisive matter of abortion, it is hard to imagine anyone becoming offended by the evenhanded treatment used by these filmmakers. 

The title is a reference to a list of rules posted in the quarters of the illiterate apple pickers.

Figuring the rules didn't apply to them since they didn't have a hand in writing them, they decide to ignore the list and make up their own rules as they go along.

Dr. Larch, in his own way, acts similarly. 

There is a danger in that line of reasoning.

God has also given us a set of rules.

Unlike the list posted in the cider house, God's rules, if followed, promise us benefits beyond our imagination.

And yet, many continue to ignore His "rules" preferring to make up their own as they go through life. 

"Trust in the LORD with all thine heart; and lean not unto thine own understanding."

Proverbs 3:5 [ KJV ] Just as a builder follows a designer's blueprint or a conductor follows a composer's score, why shouldn't we follow the rules of life given to us by life's architect for our own blessing? 


