The long and illustrious career of Robin Williams, which has included both forgettable turns like MRS.

DOUBTFIRE and FLUBBER, was punctuated with the actor's first Academy Award in 1998 for his role in GOOD WILL HUNTING.

It was his first truly dramatic role since 1989's DEAD POETS SOCIETY, and critical remarks were unanimously positive.

His next role, that of a deceased pediatrician in WHAT DREAMS MAY COME, was unfortunately lackluster. 

And so, after a six-year stint as a comedic actor, the proof on whether or not Williams can cut it in the dramatic league has come down to PATCH ADAMS. 

Williams is the title character, Hunter "Patch" Adams, sporting scruffy facial hair that falls between the clean-shavenness of DREAMS and the grotesque hairiness of WILL HUNTING.

We're introduced to Patch as he commits himself to a mental institution because of his suicidal tendancies.

It's at the institution, however, that he discovers a latent talent for relating to people. 

He removes himself from the institution and enrolls at the University of Virginia's medical college, where he finds that medical doctrine is a calculating, impersonal trade.

His attempts to inject humanity into the profession result in several bouts with expulsion, and the movie climaxes with Patch's appearance before the state medical board. 

The characters are well-defined in an Oscar-worthy sense.

Although the script does not perform well as a narrative--there's little story to be told outside of Patch's skit-length experiences--the script does go a long way toward building the relationships of characters.

At medical school, Patch meets up with Truman Schiff (Daniel London), an outsider like himself who relishes Patch's zest for humanity.

The two instantly become the best of friends, and it's easy to see why.

Monica Potter plays Patch's love interest, a young woman who personifies the things that Patch hates about medical school.

For some reason he's attracted to her, and although it never gets said, the audience understands from an intrinsic point of view.

The script--based on Hunter Adams' own story--works well this way. 

The rest of the cast, Bob Gunton as the villain professor in particular, is solid.

Director Tom Shadyac (LIAR LIAR) leads us in and out of Patch's life in a sound, intentional manner; combined with Williams' presence on screen, the movie rarely becomes boring.

PATCH ADAMS ' lack of purpose is its major shortcoming, and for the first ninety minutes out of two hours, there's little feeling of continuity or the passage of time.

Nevertheless, it's an emotionally moving picture, and PATCH ADAMS looks to be one of the more memorable of the holiday season.

It succeeds at everything it tries, and only fails at the stuff it doesn't try in the first place.

By and large there may be another Oscar nomination herein for Williams, but more importantly, it's entertainment for the entire family. 


