I saw Simon Birch in a basically sold out theater, on a Sunday afternoon. 

When the movie was over and the audience was exiting, I didn't hear one negative comment, and I didn't have any to offer. 

Simon Birch is primarily about the friendship of two twelve year old boys, Simon (Ian Michael Smith) and Joe (Joseph Mazzello), and what destiny holds for both of them.

Simon is a dwarf, who was not supposed to last through the night after birth due to a weak heart.

Surprisingly, he does, and now constantly reminds everyone that he is a living miracle.

Simon thinks God has a plan for him, a purpose for his life, and his condition, he just doesn't know what.

Joe is an illegitimate child(referred to both comically and dramatically throughout the film as a bastard), who's mom (Ashley Judd) won't tell him who his father is. 

Simon has more than just dwarfism as a problem, the people in the town don't really like him, because he isn't "natural".

Even his own parents don't care about him, and are disappointed they didn't have a "normal" son.

He is also harassed in church by the local pastor, Rev. Russell (David Strathairn) and Simon's chain smoking Sunday school teacher played by Jan Hooks.

The only person, other than Joe, that really cares for Simon is Joe's mom, who he also looks up to as a mother. 

It would be just Simon's luck, that he would accidentally kills Joe's mom, something you are told at the beginning of the movie.

Joe, now motherless as well as fatherless, feels the need to find out who his real father is.

With the help of Ben (Oliver Platt), the local drama teacher and Joe's mom's current boyfriend(before her death), he will attempt to locate his dad and get in a little trouble on the way.

Most of this trouble is laugh out loud funny, although not all of it is.

Simon will also look for God's plan for him, although he loses a little faith along the way. 

Starring in the first (and last) five minutes of the film is Hollywood's newest dramatic actor, Jim Carrey.

Jim plays the adult version of Joe and does a impressive job starting the film off, and then tying it up just right.

This is the first character Jim has played that is not over the top in anyway, and he does a commendable job. 

Simon Birch is written and directed by Mark Steven Johnson, this is his first film as director, but he has written several films, including the Grumpy Old Men series.

He does an outstanding writing and directing job here, the film's structure is flawless and its flows together perfectly.

The dialog goes from extremely funny to morose without missing a beat. 

The cast is excellent.

Joseph Mazzello gives the stand out performance. 

Joseph is outstanding for someone of any age, not alone someone who just turned 15.

Ian Michael Smith, in his film debut, has such a strong physical presence that you believe he is Simon without any hesitation.

Other great performances are turned in by the rest of the supporting cast. 

I loved this movie, it is far and away one of the best films I have seen all year.

Take your whole family to see Simon Birch, it is a magnificent film-An American Masterpiece. 


