When I first heard of CONTACT, the hype was building it up as a sci-fi blockbuster. 

Now, with that in mind, coupled with the knowledge of Jodie Foster's involvement in the project, I thought "What in the world is Foster doing in a sci-fi blockbuster???". 

As it turned out, my expectations were completely nullified and turned topsy-turvy. 

Robert Zemeckis, back from the euphoria created by his last film, FORREST GUMP, once again proves his mastery in fusing tales of adventure with along the endearing lines of human spirit. 

Don't get me wrong, CONTACT is sci-fibut with a definite difference. 

Based on the late Carl Sagan novel of the same name, the story delves itself in questions on science and god; fact and faith. 

Allie (Foster) is a radio astronomer. 

She spends her time listening to the stars, via ultra-huge communication dishes in search of intelligent life beyond the Solar System. 

Her passion for ` long-distance communication ' is the result of her younger days being spent avidly in front of a ham-radio system (a hobbyist radio communication device) which her late-father bought for her. 

A scene which particularly strengthens the audiences' view of the passion is when she asked her father whether she could contact her late-mother through the ham-radio system in which her father replied "Not even the most powerful radio in the world can do that, now". 

Allie's research is based on the SETI project (Search for Extra Terrestrial Intelligence), in which she listens to radio emissions from other galaxies in the hope of finding one which would suggest intelligent manipulation. 

Her work has never been off the scrutiny of the US government, which considers it a waste of taxpayer's money and politically unviable, her supervisor (Tom Skerritt) pulls the plug on SETI. 

Undaunted, Allie managed to gather a loyal group of ` believers' and eventually found funding from a large private corporation. 

The following months were treacherous to their hopes and research as they are contantly pressured by the government but all that changed when one day, she caught an emission of a seemingly intelligent repeating sound-wave. 

The news of her find attracted hordes of alien believers, cultist, the media and of course, the government. 

The situation became intense upon her discovery of pictorial plans on building a form of transport which were embedded within the repeating sound emission. 

As the world join forces to build this transport, Allie is desperate to be the one to go. 

She enrols herself among a few hopefuls, to represent the world when the transport is ready for operation. 

Her eligibility for the spot failed when she is questioned on her beliefs in the existence of god by the President's spiritual advisor (McConaughey); Allie, being an atheist, a result of her belief in fact and science, refuses to budge upon questioning. 

At this point the movie plot thickens considerably as she is romantically involved with the President's spiritual advisor. 

A strong point which propelled the movie is the depth of its main characters played by Foster and McConaughey. 

From the very first meeting scene, it is obvious that the two of them was sort of kindred spirits but they were worlds apart in almost all aspects, Foster being a person drawn to science and facts and McConaughey being one who believes in faith, hope and the power of the unseen. 

The meeting of their worlds, added with the situation which they are put into makes the entire storytelling process near flawless. 

Many people who read the synopsis of this film would find it a tad too ridiculous, but by actually immersing yourself in it, gives you an entirely different perspective; one which is free from bias and pre-conceptions. 

Zemeckis and his team of screen writers have done a remarkable job in telling this tale through film. 

CONTACT works by NOT delving in controversy but rather, touches the thinking audience, urging them to ponder upon the questions raised in the film concerning fact and faith; whether one can actually find compromise within. 

I consider CONTACT as one of the must-sees for this year. 
