"Being John Malkovich" is the type of film we need to see more.

Today's films are either blockbusters that entertain us with tiresome formulas, or those that have similar themes.

Malkovich falls under none of these categories, and it's quite refreshing to see that occur.

This strangely provoking story, is actually somewhat understandable.

John Cusack plays a puppeteer trying to make it to the big time.

His wife (Cameron Diaz) supports the both of them by working at a petstore, which explains the obscure pets they keep in their apartment.

When Cusack finally realizes he needs to get a job, he finds an ad for a filing clerk.

When he reaches the building, he arrives at a1/2 floor.

It's there that he discovers a secret portal that leads to Being John Malkovich forminutes at a time.

Meanwhile, Cusack meets a business partner (Catherine Keener), in which he falls madly in love with her.

The only problem is, she has no interest in him what so ever.

The whole portal thing, isn't just a toy, in fact, it becomes Cusack's dream.

Being inside Malkovich's mind, gave him the opportunity to basically control Mlakovich, like a puppet, and to fulfill his fantasies.

I don't want to give away too much, but Cusack becomes too attached with his discovery. 

In my opinion, this idea is absolutely brilliant.

It's really quite scary to think that someone could become you, control you, be you.

It makes you wonder why we act like we do, and why sometimes we blurt out things or act out something out of the blue.

Even if the script is super sharp, I can't help but find the ending displeasing.

It could have lead up to something more, or at least an amusing conclusion.

It tried to explain a mythology about the portals, that made it seem rushed.

Other than that, I had a very enjoyable time.

The acting was quite delightful as well.

John Cusack has finally been given a chance to prove his ability, and he does it well.

He's by far the most underrated actor due to a lack of popularity, but I'm hoping that will change.

Cameron Diaz was her usual charming self, although I felt that part was wrong for her, but she pulled it off.

John Malkovich himself continues to creep out people with his eerie facial expressions and tone of voice.

Who else's mind would be better to explore?

The director, Spike Jonze, who appeared in last month's Three Kings really catches my attention with this project.

I knew he was bizzare, but not to this extreme.

He too is likely too receive media attention.

"Being John Malkovich" isn't an excellent film, but it is definitly entertaining and will eaisly become a cult favorite.

What's even better is the film's puzzling message... Am I Nick Lyons? 
