Starring: Jim Carrey, Laura Linney, Noah Emmerich, Holland Taylor and Ed Harris The 1998 Summer Movie Season is still in its infancy.

But after diasappointing films such as "Godzilla" and "Fear And Loathing In Las Vegas", it would be nice to see a really good film.

But I doubt you could have expected this. 

The Truman show is one of the most unique films I have ever seen, and it deserves a spot on the "Decade's Best" list.

There is no way to isolate any single component of this picture and proclaim, "Yes, THAT 'S what makes this film great." 

The blend of Peter Weir's masterful (and in many ways brilliant) direction, Peter Biziou's stunning photography and Jim Carrey's performance is what makes this film work so fantastically. 

There is something strangely beautiful about every shot in The Truman Show. 

It may be the use of color or the placement of characters in the frame, but everything about this film looks intentional and perfect. 

Carrey has made a very wise choice.

By playing mild-mannered Truman Burbank, he allows himself enough room to be comical, and therefore not alienating his true fans, while still showing a vulnerable and human side.

That is a side which has been missing from nearly every major character he has played in his numerous commercial successes. 

Truman Burbank was born to an audience of millions.

He was chosen before birth to be the focus of ahour television show.

Everything in his environment is controlled by a team of technicians, led by the show's director, Christof (played by Ed Harris).

Everyone in Truman's life is an actor or an extra.

They are all being watched by millions of people around the globe, people who can tune in at any time of the day to see what is happening in Truman's life.

But he is the only person that is not aware of it. 

The classification of The Truman Show may be tricky.

The audience reacted to many of Truman's revelations with laughter.

I did not laugh much during the film because I was so emotionally wrapped up with the character.

The things that made the audience laugh gave me glassy eyes, because what was happening to him, indeed what had been done to him his whole life was wrong.

So is this going to end up labeled as a comedy?

A drama?

It really depends on the audience.

But to me, The Truman Show was a touching, sad tale about the extents to which a corporation will go to exploit human life for the entertainment of others. 

But above all else, The Truman Show was a stunningly beautiful picture with humor, heart and scary realism.

Oscar predictions in June are pointless, but if The Truman Show had been released on schedule in late fall or winter of 1997, as originally planned, James Cameron would be Oscar-less. 
