FULL METAL JACKET, very much like every other hard-hitting film about the Vietnam War, is an shocking, emotional depiction of the war that effected almost everyone in America. 

This film is more like PLATOON than any other in the way that it chronicles the struggles of a young man (Private Joker, played by Matthew Modine) during his tour in the Vietnam War. 

However, FULL METAL JACKET gives the audience an insight into combat life very rarely seen before: boot camp. 

These sequences are considered to be the best part in this three act film, even though I found the later portions to be equally stunning. 

As in PLATOON, FULL METAL JACKET gets off to a quick start. 

The opening sequence is the initiation for the recruits, which is getting their heads shaved. 

From there, they find themselves standing at attention and receiving their orders from the extremely hard and punishing Sergeant Hartman, played extremely well by the former drill instructor R. Lee Ermey. 

Apparently, the solution was found for the perfect man to play a drill instructor in the movies, because Ermey depicts his character extremely well and will make you thank whomever that you were never subjected to such horrible situations. 

Private Joker gets off on the wrong foot with the Sergeant, as does the large bodied Private Leonard Lawrence (Vincent D'Onofrio), whom is dubbed ' Gomer Pyle ' by Sgt. Hartman. 

The film is continually narrated by Private Joker, in which he explains his visions on what is going on. 

The entire corps, although repeatedly hammered by Sgt. Hartman, continues on. 

Private Pyle, however, seems to be the rag doll for the drill instructor. 

He continually absorbs the worst punishment and humiliation, and it basically does not stop. 

That is, until Sgt. Hartman comes up with a new plan. 

He will punish the rest of the soon-to-be-Marines for Pyle's goof-ups, even after Joker was assigned to help him out in the best way he can. 

Pyle then receives punishment from his fellow recruits, and things take a turn for the worst. 

Pyle proves that not everyone is emotionally, physically, and mentally cut out for the life of a Marine. 

After graduation, Joker is sent over to the height of the action in order to document the war, which is his service. 

He is not a member of the infantry, and it is unclear if he will ever actually find himself in combat. 

When he sets out on a documenting mission, this question becomes very clear from the start. 

Joker joins up with a platoon, along with his hometown friend Cowboy (Arliss Howard), and follows their everyday actions, interviewing and filmming them along the way. 

He also soon finds himself in a position in which he must fight, or die. 

Again, as in the tradition of Vietnam War films, FULL METAL JACKET can be debated as to whether it is an anti-war film or not. 

A few of the more powerful scenes toward the end will leave you to decide. 

FULL METAL JACKET succeeds extremely well in documenting the life of a young man in Vietnam, as have others in the past. 

This film, in different ways, also can be viewed as more powerful than others. 

That, again, is up for debate and depends on your opinion. 

One thing is for sure, however; no one ever wants to experience the absolute Hell that these soldiers are subjected to. 

Unfortunately, many did. 
