In, "The Muse" Albert Brooks plays Steven Phillips, a Hollywood screenwriter who after winning a Humanitarian Award for his work is dumped by his studio. 

They claim that he's lost his edge and his agent is quick to agree with them.

He knows that he needs to write something fresh and original and quick or else his career will be over.

So he turns to his "best" friend, Jack (Jeff Bridges) another screenwriter who's enjoyed success after success.

On the way over to Jack's house Steven sees Jack helping an attractive woman (Sharon Stone) into a cab and begins to think: Is he having an affair?

When confronted, Jack relunctently tells him that this mystery woman is, in fact, a muse, a mythological figure who is believed to have inspired all creativity, and has helped him garner his success. 

"She doesn't do any actual writing," he is told, "but inspires you."

Steven is excited by what he's hearing and asks Jack to call her up to see if she'll take Steven on as a new client.

Jack arranges a meeting between the two and suggests that Steven bring her a present, preferably something from Tiffany's.

After the meeting the muse, Sarah decides to take on Steven, but at a price: She wants a suite at the Four Seasons and wants Steven to perform odd tasks for her (like bringing her salads in the middle of the night.) 

Steven's wife (Andy MacDowell) sees him at a food store and questions him about why he has tampons in his wagon.

Steven confesses everything and, although at first suspicious, she later allows Sarah to move into their guest room and eventually into their life.

The only question for Steven is if the muse is worth all the trouble he's going through for her. 

And that's a question only time will tell. 

"The Muse" is Albert Brooks' sixth film as writer/director/actor (he co-wrote with Monica Johnson) and although it's a good movie it's not up to the level of his best works ("Defending Your Life" and "Mother").

The problem lies in the script, and for a movie that relies on its dialogue for its humor, there aren't nearly as many laughs as they are chuckles despite a few good one-liners.

It has a great premise but doesn't deliver up to it's full potential. 

But, I like Albert Brooks in this film and I think that we can all identify with Steven Phillips a little bit.

He may whine and complain, but he just wants to support his family and be happy.

And I like Sharon Stone in this movie too; it's a nice change of pace for her.

And I also enjoyed the cameos featuring the likes of Rob Reiner, James Cameron and Martin Scorsese.

And although "The Muse" doesn't have as much to say about Hollywood as Robert Altman's "The Player" I still left the theater feeling good.

And that's something I wish I got out of more movies. 

Visit my homepage "Thoughts on Film" at [ 1]http://members.aol.com/videolau/ThoughtsOnFilm.html 


