Frequency n., The number of times a specified phenomenon occurs within a specified interval as the number of repetitions of a complete sequence of values of a periodic function per unit variation of an independent variableetc Don't worry. 

When watching the thriller Frequency, you won't have to know what the heck frequency means. 

The premise, although it may sound complex, is very basic on the big screen. 

A New York cop, John, (Jim Caviezel) finds a radio in his house, which allows him to communicate with his New York firefighter father, Frank, (Dennis Quaid) who died thirty years ago. 

Immediately John warns his father that he will die trying to stop a fire in an abandoned warehouse. 

When Frank takes his advice and survives the accident he wasn't supposed to, the two eventually realize that by changing that one moment in the past, they have created a whole new future in which a serial killer murders John's mother and nine other women. 

It is now up to John and Frank to use their special connection and save thirty years ago to make present time a better place. 

(I told you that wasn't confusing). 

Overall, I was very pleased with Frequency. 

It's occasional sappy moments perfectly synchronized with its suspenseful serial killer scenes. 

I usually don't buy those cheesy "I love you dad" segments in movies, but this one surprisingly satisfied me. 

Maybe because the plot is so creative and universal that I believed that this is how most people would act when talking to a dead relative. 

Frequency's creepy premise left me thinking once the film ended, what if? 

What would I do? 

Would I help my own family or save a historical figure from being assasinated? 

Or stop some kids from shooting other kids? 

Or buy stock from Yahoo!? (a character in the film does the latter with humorous consequences). 

Frequency also reminded me of the fantastic Back to the Future. 

Both share that "change the past slightly, and you'll change the future heavily" warning. 

The changes between the present and the past, such as different newspaper headlines or people disappearing and reappearing in photographs, are very similar. 

Both are also wonderful feel-good family films that can attract to a number of generations. 

The only difference worth noting is that Frequency's final scene doesn't set up a possibility for a lucrative sequel already in the making. 

There are some problems with the film though. 

First, there is a major flaw in the story towards the end that is somewhat distracting (Email me if you have seen the movie and want to know what I think it is). 

The plot must have confused even the filmmakers who frequently (no pun intended) switch from 1969 to 1999 while telling the story. 

Another problem is that the supporting cast, including Noah Emmerich and Andre Braugher, are underused. 

While in the film, which is not enough, the aforementioned actors steal every scene they are in. 

Frequency was a pleasant surprise for me and the audience I saw it with who cheered at the end. 

Even if you know what is going to happen or if you think the preview ruined the movie for you, like it almost did for me, check this movie out. 

You may be surprised as well. 
