Best Original Song THAT THING YOU DO!, from first-time film director Tom Hanks, is an enjoyable tale about a fictional band, The Wonders, that goes from a garage band to the band with the fastest selling album in the country. 

But, the question arrises, will the seduction of fame and fortune corrupt the band and lead them to become just another one-hit wonder, or will they stick together and become the next teen sensations? 

The "Oneders", as they are originally known, have their first gig at a very small-time contest. 

Jimmy, the lead singer, has written a catchy song and intends to play it at the contest. 

But, a short time before the contest begins, the current drummer becomes injured and a replacement is needed. 

Enter Guy Patterson, skilled musician who currently works at his father's appliance store and is looking to break free from the restricting clutches that bind him. 

He seems to fit in well, until the group takes the stage. 

When they begin to play, Guy's beat is much too fast and the pace is way off for the intended song. 

It looks as though the group is doomed to failure. 

But, the "new" song is a hit! 

This leads to another gig, and soon enough, the group has an agent. 

He doesn't do too much for them, but they do get their song played on the radio. 

Eventually, Mr. White of Playtone records approaches the group, and he informs them that they want to release a record. 

Before you can say "Billboard", the band is now renamed "The Wonders" and the members are speeding their way to fame. 

The gigs are getting better, their fame is increasing, and they have the fastest selling album in Playtone Records history. 

The band is invited to appear in a feature film, and, they then fly out to Hollywood to appear on television. 

After the appearance on television, things start to fall apart. 

Two of the members of the band pretty much disappear, and things are not working out well between Jimmy and Guy. 

Will the band work it out, or will they split up and go on their own separate journeys towards success? 

THAT THING YOU DO!, complete with a nifty original song that actually sounded authentic, is a fun and enjoyable movie that, although it doesn't become clear if it wants to be a comedy, drama, or romance, is a well-made look into the world of music. 

Tom Hanks' directorial debut was a good one and should lead to more work for him. 
