SCARFACE, a remake of the 1932 film of the same name, is a very gripping and, as far as I know, a true-to-life story of how power and violence lead to corruption. 

Al Pacino, as Tony Montana (for whom the movie is named), also provides a brilliant performance as a Cuban refugee who comes to America with less than nothing and becomes one of the most highly respected and feared drug lords in Miami. 

Oliver Stone also penned the screenplay in one of his earlier writing roles. 

The film begins by disclosing the story of now Fidel Castro ordered thousands of Cubans to set sail and head for the coasts of the United States. 

Many of these Cubans had criminal records, such as Tony Montana, a cocky, fast-talking man who has the look of crime. 

Nearly right after his arrival in Miami, Tony is thrust into the gangster life when he participates in a cocaine buy that goes awry. 

Along with his friend and partner, Manolo (Steven Bauer), Tony rises in the gangster ranks when he forms a friendship with Frank Lopez (Robert Loggia), a high-roller in the organized crime field. 

Tony also begins to fall in love with Elvira (Michelle Pfeiffer), who at the time was Frank's lover. 

Of course, sooner or later in this industry, betrayal and corruption amount into a force greater than anything else, and Tony is one of the ones who fall victim to this force. 

This is not before he becomes one of the most respected, and often feared, men in Miami. 

Tony gets to the point where he cannot trust anyone, and everyone he knows basically feels the same way towards him. 

No one can trust him, and basically, no one does. 

SCARFACE, although incredibly violent, is one of the best crime films of its time and stands out as another great performance for Al Pacino. 

Although he did not receive any recognition from the Academy for his performance, it truly is a very good one. 

In fact, his accent and facial movements alone are enough in my mind to win at least a nomination (although he did get a Golden Globe nomination). 

Another element that stands out when someone mentions this film is the profanity. 

A figure tagged to the film boasts that the word "fuck" and it's uses are uttered 206 times throughout the film, which is apparently a record. 

The thing is, the vulgarity fits rather well with the movie. 

As odd as it sounds, it's true. 

In the end, SCARFACE is a very powerful film that hits home hard. 
