Steven Spielberg may not have directed (he only executive produced) but his touch certainly is evident in this movie. 

And he knows a money making winner when he sees one. 

The Mask of Zorro has the hallmarks of a blockbuster: big action, funny comedy, and the pacing of a rollercoaster. 

Hopkins plays Don Diego de la Vega, otherwise known as Zorro. 

A fighter for the people, he is eventually captured by Don Rafael Montero (Stuart Wilson), who also, unintentionally, kills his wife. 

The film cuts to twenty years later, where Vega still wants to Montero dead. 

However, he's far too old now, and trains up thief Alejandro Murrieta (Banderas) to become the new Zorro. 

Banderas motive? 

To avenge the death of his brother, who was killed at the hands of Captain Love (Matthew Letscher) who rather tastefully keeps the head in a jar, in one of the more graphic scenes in this family movie. 

With the scene set, the movie goes on full blast, with sword fights a-plenty and witty one liners. 

Banderas and Hopkins have a marvellous chemistry as the two Zorro's, playing each other off with ease. 

Hopkins seems to come off a little better, but Banderas does some excellent work. 

As the bad guys, Wilson and Letscher seem one dimensional, but they go through the bad guy shtick in an above average way. 

The audience does hate them, which can't be bad. 

Catherine Zeta-Jones also pops up as Hopkins daughter, and although she provides little more than the usual female lead, she delivers a charming, but one note, performance. 

The chemistry is excellent between Banderas and Jones. 

There's a delightful little scene where Banderas and Jones have a sword fight, and every swipe an item of clothing gets slashed, until Jones clothes fall off all together. 

The director, fresh from the enjoyable GoldenEye (1995) handles the film perfectly. 

The action is well done and fast paced, the comedy put across well. 

The cast help a lot, but the direction is still outstanding. 

Although the film is very long, the plot keeps chugging along, and there's barely a dull moment. 

However, the film is a little over indulgent, and it could have been trimmed. 

It manages to hold the attention, thankfully, and the adventure and charm holds right up to the last reel. 

Screenwriters John Eskow, Ted Elliot and Terry Rosio have unfortunately written an cliched and one dimensional script. 

Although they've bought Zorro up to date with big explosions and wild action, the plot itself is barely existent. 

There's lots of little sub plots hanging around, but there's nothing substantial to bring them all together. 

The main story seems to be the fact that Rafael wants to ' buy ' California using gold stolen from the guy he's buying the land off. 

This sets up for a Temple of Doom type plot where we see peasants slave driven into getting the gold from little mines. 

However, this doesn't seem to appear until nearly over a hour into the film, so the film is never quite sure where it's going. 

In the end however, Zorro provides action and comedy in spades. 

It suitable for everyone, so put the guilt behind, and put some more money into Spielbergs bank account. 

You won't regret it. 
