"Rebel Without a Cause" is such an important film in American history because it is a true analysis of youth in America that everyone of all ages can relate to. 

Everyone feels that they are different in some way, that they don't belong in some places and "Rebel Without a Cause" successfully shows on screen these universal emotions. 

No matter what generation you belong to, these feelings are present. 

This is why James Dean is admired by America, because in this film he represents us all and his actions are actions that we would also execute. 

In our minds, we just try to do the right thing just like Dean's Jim Stark does. 

Not only does "Rebel Without a Cause" display these universal emotions for all to relate to but it also shows that America has suffered a uniqe pattern in its social structure. 

Each generation looks at its past generation without a strong connection. 

This is because times change and in response people change. 

No matter how popular you were once, as your generation grows older, newer breeds look at you in a different light. 

This is why Stark and his friends never could form a strong relationship with their parents. 

Even if their parents insisted that they were also rebellious and troublesome in the past, the teens could not believe this. 

In one humorous scene, Stark, his girlfriend Judy (Natalie Wood), and his pal Plato (Sal Mineo) pretend they are adults. 

They use upper class British accents and in their conversations they make it out to appear that kids are no good and should be ignored. 

This scene shows that what was once cool in a past generation is the complete opposite in another. 

Speaking on behalf of my generation, I feel that Dean has lost a lot of his coolness from our perspective as the years have grown by. 

The only ones who seem to still lionize him are those members of his generation. 

Same goes for Brando, Redford, even Deniro. 

I can only imagine how vaguely Matt Damon, Ben Affleck, and Brad Pitt will be viewed at the mid point of the twenty first century. 

Will Dean even be remembered when these newcomers are forgotten? 

Any film that sparks this kind of thought is certainly a milestone in American film. 

Even if "Rebel Without a Cause" has some ridiculous scenes (the game of chicken-did people really act this way?), an unbelievable conclusion (how did everyone end up at the abandoned mansion at the end?), and a silly romance (Wood declares her love for Dean after talking to him for a couple hours) it still is a fabulous film. 

The acting is so believable that it is no wonder that Dean was considered the epitome of cool. 

Now, however, the coolness is fading... 
