JAY AND SILENT BOB STRIKE BACK (2001) 

Rated R. Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back can rightfully be subtitled "Kevin Smith's Greatest Hits" for the film is comprised of numerous references and characters from Smith's earlier works including, Clerks, Mall Rats. 

Chasing Amy and Dogma. 

So, be advised: Bone up on that cinematic quartet in order to achieve the maximum enjoyment from Smith's latest outing. 

Kevin Smith must be a very likable person because several good sports took a ton of kidding in this feature, most notably Miramax, the studio whose subsidiary, Dimension Films, is Jay and Silent Bob's distributor. 

Others deserving accolades include Ben Affleck, Matt Damon, directors Gus Van Zant and Wes Craven and the mighty George Lucas. 

This is a laugh-filled, foul-mouthed road film with Jay (Jason Mewes) and Silent Bob (Smith) hitching to Hollywood to sabotage Miramax's production of Bluntman and Chronic, comic book characters based on the two Jersey slackers. 

Jay's convoluted reasoning is that if the film is shut down, people on the Internet will stop insulting him and Bob, even though it is not him and Bob the people are dissing, but rather their comic book counterparts. 

No matter, the duo begin their long trek hitching rides across the country. 

But first they get some tips from a veteran hitchhiker, played by George Carlin, who tells them to follow "the book"-the rules of the road. 

Of course Jay's interpretation immediately gets the duo in trouble with a friendly nun (Carrie Fisher) who offers them a ride. 

Jay and Silent Bob contains enough laughs that the movie's weaker aspects-which include a lame subplot about a girl gang of diamond thieves as well as a buffoonish federal park ranger played by Will Ferrell-can be easily tolerated. 

Really, how can you not laugh at a film in which our heroes are picked up by the Mystery Van, and Jay has a pot-induced hallucination concerning Velma and Daphne. 

The movie's highlight, though, is near the finale. 

In Hollywood, Jay and Silent Bob sneak onto the Miramax lot where they crash the set and are mistaken for extras of the latest Affleck-Damon picture, Good Will Hunting 2: Hunting Season. 

Here we are privy to a hilarious conversation between Affleck and Damon in which the two put down each other's careers and film choices. 

And the laughs continue to grow. 

Next up is Jason (American Pie) Biggs and James (Dawson's Creek) Van der Beek, the actors chosen to portray Bluntman and Chronic. 

The pair mistake Jay and Silent Bob for their stunt doubles. 

Finally, comes a Star Wars homage featuring one of the stars of that legendary feature. 

This bit will leave you howling. 

Smith's obvious affection for pop culture icons is evident in the way he shoots these scenes and handles his performers. 

He allows them to play it all tongue-in-cheek. 

Their fun comes through the screen to the audience. 

It is too bad that this is Jay and Silent Bob's swan song. 

The characters have grown since their supporting role debuts in Clerks. 

But Smith realizes that times have changed, and he doesn't want his creations to overstay their welcome. 

So Smith has provided them with just the right kind of exit, saving the best for last. 

Goodbye Jay and Silent Bob. 

At least you're going out with a blast. 
