Earlier this year, the movie HOLY MAN opened to a meager box office receipt and to indifference from audiences and critics. 

A real charmer of a movie, it's possible that the subject matter was too hip or trendy to attract any real audience. 

Now, at the end of 1998, comes WAKING NED DEVINE, a comedy which inspires the same vein of easygoing laughter. 

There's no substantial difference between the two other than a more refined atmosphere--they strike all the same chords--but still, NED DEVINE is a movie worth seeing. 

The plot is interesting and robust: the latest lottery winner is Ned Devine (Jimmy Keogh), of Tullymore, Ireland. 

Ned's prize is over six million pounds, but the shock of winning killed the poor old man, and the check remains unclaimed. 

Enter Jackie O'Shea (Ian Bannen) and Michael O'Sullivan (David Kelly), the only two residents who are aware the winner is in their village. 

The two men eventually find the ticket, and decide that if Michael can convince the lotto authorities that he's actually Ned, the entire town can reap the benefits; their only adversary is an ancient old woman (Eileen Dromey) who sees more profit in reporting the fraud. 

Ian Bannen and David Kelly truly shine as Jackie and Michael. 

Jackie, stocky and large, is the brains behind the operation; Michael, scrawny and short, is the method man. 

The two contrast each other delightfully, and at the same time remain sympathetic to the audience. 

Every viewer is sure to like both of them. 

There are other minor subplots included as well, such as an unlikely romance between a local girl and the town pig farmer. 

This appears quite inconsequential until the end, and even with a startling revelation it's a tad bit unnecessary. 

Overall, WAKING NED DEVINE has a predictable outcome, and plot twists are never really taken seriously. 

The ending, a very hilarious and very ironic twist of fate, somehow fits with the twisted sense of humor the movie exhibits throughout. 

The Kirk Jones script is indeed off-the-cuff. 

In a way, WAKING NED DEVINE is exactly like the class of people it presents: warm, friendly, outgoing, and jovial. 

It's the perfect kind of comedy, a real gem of a tale that sets up a trivial plot outline by which to introduce a sympathetic cast of characters and a string of jokes. 

There's nothing remotely serious or grounded for more than a moment or two, because the spirit of NED DEVINE is a lighthearted one. 

Indeed, it's one of the year's best feel-good movies--91 minutes of unrestrained joy that no one should miss. 
