DIRECTED BY: Stephen Frears WRITTEN BY: D.V. DeVincentis, based upon a novel by Nick Hornby CAST: John Cusack, Todd Louiso, Tim Robbins, Catherine Zeta-Jones, Iben Hjejle After a rather disappointing "Mary Railly", Stephen Frears is now officially back in business with a comeback worthy of praise.

This is one of the best surprises of this season--a sweet, small budget comedy with a big heart. 

In fact it's not even a comedy.

It's a drama or even more precise--a clever satire on human relationships and needs.

Based on a 1995 critically acclaimed novel by British author Nick Hornby, `` High Fidelity '' is a wry and likable story about a man's quest for fulfillment and happiness. 

Rob Gordon was a DJ.

It seems that he could make everything spin--except his own life.

Now he owns Championship Vinyl, a little musical store, somewhere in New York.

When he suddenly gets dumped by his girlfriend, a gorgeous blond attorney, life suddenly looses every purpose.

Decimated, humiliated and on the verge of a mental (and emotional) breakdown, he starts meditating over his life and the way it could have been--about what's right and what's important.

He starts "categorizing" life, dividing it into "toplists".

And the most important is the "toplist" over the most painful breakups of his life, starting with 5th grade, when he found his young girlfriend with another boy.

Though you might think that people change, grow more mature with age, it just doesn't seem that way and all Rob's relationships were different versions of that first.

Where did he go wrong? 

Was it he that screwed up?

Or maybe life just stinks?

While he is lost in his own self-pity, he must think of the "toplist" over his needs for the future, find the right elements and mix his life together. 

With clever parallels to the cult of celebrity, music and with incredibly direct narration, it addresses the average audience member, in other words--people like you and me.

Although a lot of this honor should be addressed to the screenwriter ______ and Frears, the director, the acting is equally important as the written word.

And here John Cusack should absolutely be mentioned.

He is simply superb.

It is as much his movie as it is Frears '. 

The film would not be the same without him.

Cusack--whose character is sadder, wiser and--brings intelligence and warmth to post-mod irony.

Most of his dialogue is delivered directly to the camera--not an easy task--but Cusack pulls it off.

His interpretation feels so emotionally right, so incredibly realistic and precise that Frears' message simply can't be ignored or overseen.

The other members of the cast do an equally remarkable job.

Both ______ and Jack Black are fabulous.

Even Catherine Zeta Jones appears in a role where she actually acts, not just looks beautiful. 

However, the most unexpected pleasant surprises is provided by Todd Louiso who delivers a spectacular comic performance as Rob's co-worker and friend Dick. 

This is such an impressive achievement that it's almost worth a Oscar-nomination.

He is simply a joy to behold.

Otherwise, everyone are in their place, and at the right time--all part of Frears' colorful blend. 

Pretty much like Edward Norton's "Keeping the Faith", this film doesn't follow any formula or belong to any genre--it's dramatic, tragic, sarcastic, comic and even cynical, but never bitter or angry.

It's a little bit of everything, pretty much like life itself.

Nothing seems unreal or staged.

It reflects reality as a mirror.

As you watch it, you go through the same emotional problems as the main character.

You feel and think and reflect.

This effect has become a rarity nowadays. 

Although it's primarily about the perils of love, `` High Fidelity '' is secondarily about pop music.

Rob owns Championship Vinyl and his employees, timid Dick (Todd Louiso) and overbearing Barry (Jack Black), are fellow music snobs.

Music is the language in their lives, the measure by which they define themselves and mark the significant events of their lives.

And so does the movie.

It is as much a musical film as anything else, as Rob's journey is wonderfully portrayed through carefully inserted musical fragments. 

In the end, you have gained something while watching it.

It's not the film of the century or even of the year.

It's not an special effects extravaganza.

It doesn't require big explosions or digital creatures to succeed.

It's a small movie about the big things.

And even though it does not contain heavy philosophy, you feel as if you have experienced something of significance, and you will experience that nice warm feeling for quite some time. 
