With many big-budget science fiction films, great ideas are often wasted by bad scripts, cheesy plot twists, and, terrible acting.

The Fifth Element, The Abyss, and Godzilla had great concepts squandered by bad acting, writing, or both.

At first glance, The Matrix, Larry & Andy Wachowski's sci-fi/kung-fu/shoot-em-up spectacular, looks like a prime candidate to join the list of high-concept bad movies, especially with dopey Keanu Reeves in the leading role.

But despite high levels of cheese and gaudy dialogue, The Matrix works.

It's an uncanny blend of action and surreal fantasy that borrows from dozens of other films (most obviously the Terminator films, Star Wars, and Total Recall), but remains refreshingly original and interesting throughout. 

Reeves plays Neo, a computer hacker who stumbles into an initially bewildering set of encounters with "Trinity" (Carrie-Anne Moss), a rival hacker who has supernatural powers and stunning good looks, a unseen, omniscient cult figure known as "Morpheus" (Lawrence Fishburne), and a trio of creepy men in dark suits who act like IRS agents from Hell.

Neo quickly learns that the world he has known all his life is not what it seems. 

Moreover, he discovers that the grim, bleak world he is introduced to has been waiting for him to save it.

Neo is reluctant to assume the role of messiah, with grave doubts that he is actually "The One" prophesized to come and save the world. 

Reluctant or not, what follows is a mix of Hong Kong-style slow-motion shootouts, surreal dream sequences, high speed chases, and comic book Kung-Fu fights.

The film also raises interesting philosophical questions about reality.

How exactly do you know what is real and what is in your mind?

And if the real world were much harsher and grim than a fantasy one you were living in, would you want to face the true world or continue to live in a more comfortable illusion?

Unfortunately, The Matrix doesn't provide many answers to the questions it raises, but at least it puts some ideas behind all the explosions, shoot-outs, and flying roundhouse kicks. 

Perhaps stealing the entire show in The Matrix is Australian actor Hugo Weaving, who plays Agent Smith, the leader of the creepy agents in sunglasses and suits who seem capable of being anywhere and doing anything to stop Neo and friends from destabilizing the Matrix.

Weaving's stony appearance, deadpan voice, and chilling comments put a grim human face on the haunting, evil technological force that controls the Matrix.

Like Robert Patrick as the shapeshifting T-1000 Terminator in Terminator 2: Judgement Day, Weaving is more frightening than any monstrous alien or homicidal robot because, despite his power and seeming invincibility, he looks ordinary, even scrawny.

Weaving embodies his role with a memorably chilling presence. 

The film features some truly breathtaking special effects and stylish cinematography.

It seems to be deliberately kitchy, with stylized fight sequences directed by Hong Kong stunt specialist Wo Ping that reportedly required months of martial arts training by the actors.

In a few scenes, the posing and posturing is unintentionally funny.

Just seeing Keanu Reeves engaging in serious Kung Fu is a bit jarring.

However, with the comic-book style and tone of the film, you can sustain willing disbelief long enough to enjoy the ride without losing patience. 

The Matrix isn't a classic.

Its open-ended and confusing conclusion raises more questions than it answers.

It fails to resolve many of its own plot twists and philosophical questions.

It also relies on some conventional sentimentality to save the hero-the kind of shmaltzy feel-good goo that most of the film avoids.

Reportedly, the producers have high hopes for the film being the first in a trilogy and have already begun work on the story for the sequel.

Unfortunately, audiences deserve a little more than a vague sense that the story will continue in the future.

The Matrix is an fun, enjoyable diversion, like a big puff of cotton candy at a carnival.

Just don't be surprised half an hour later when you still feel a little hungry. 




