I can already feel the hate letters pouring in on this one, folks. 

I loved THE WEDDING SINGER. 

But it gets worse. 

If I so much as mention TITANIC in the same sentence... hell, same paragraph as THE WEDDING SINGER, I'm bound to be lynched. 

Well lynch me then, because I thought Adam Sandler and Drew Barrymore had the most convincing chemistry in recent memory, with TITANIC as the only exception. 

Right away, you're ready to discount my review, aren't you? 

You're thinking that I can't possibly know what I'm talking about. 

After all, this is Adam Sandler right??? 

Well, there's more... 

I actually got choked up, and more than once. 

Yes, the man who brought us BILLY MADISON and HAPPY GILMORE was able to bring sincere tears to my eyes. 

But before you shrug me off as an imbecile, I urge you to see the movie and see for yourself. 

THE WEDDING SINGER is the story of Robby Hart (Sandler), a 1985 rock star wannabe whose soul achievement in life has been performing cover tunes at wedding receptions for the past five years or so. 

But when his own wedding results in a no-show for the bride (Angela Featherstone as Linda), Robby begins to re-examine his life, and wonder why true love doesn't exist for people like him. 

In the process of performing at these receptions, Robby meets a waitress named Julia, played with wholesome sweetness by Drew Barrymore, whose reputation is anything but this character. 

Julia too is engaged, and when Robby finds himself without a wife, his free time allows him to help her plan her own wedding, seeing as how her fiance, the "Miami Vice" loving Glenn (Matthew Glave), doesn't seem all that interested. 

As the time goes by, we learn the reason Glenn is do dispassionate about the wedding-he's merely marrying Julia to prevent a breakup, something he wants to avoid even if he does sleep around with tons of other women. 

It's obvious that Robby is going to fall for Julia and feel a strong need to rescue her, but what is a lighthearted romantic comedy for? 

This isn't SLEEPLESS IN SEATTLE, but I'd actually compare it to that before I'd compare it to HAPPY GILMORE. 

While THE WEDDING SINGER maintains some of that post-SNL cornball humor, its sincerity and charm carry it a very, very long way. 

Sandler is great in his role, and yes, if you allow it, you can take him seriously. 

Barrymore seems perfect along side him, and although the two more likely represent Gen-X moronism and party-girl ditzism (respectively), the two go together like bread and butter as a mid-eighties couple. 

One scene in particular, where Julia ponders the future in a mirror, is so well done, I was on the verge of tears. 

Unfortunately, Sandler is going to make a lot of people shrug this one off as a no-brainer, but it's got so much surprise substance packed inside that I'm encouraging everyone to go see it. 

In fact, the entire theater applauded when the film ended, and laughs were so consistent, some jokes were probably missed due to the uproar. 

The 1985 setting was milked for everything it was worth, and for those of us that are old enough to remember it, it was a bodacious trip back (and done very well). 

Sandler shows a new side to himself while maintaining all his original charm (or is it anti-charm?). 

While THE WEDDING SINGER only deserves three stars due to artistic merit, grading it on pure enjoyability would give this one four stars. 

It's hilarious, and it's touching. 

It's got that great cheezy humor, but it also takes Sandler to a higher level than anyone expected. 

This is one to see again and again. 

Is it possible THE WEDDING SINGER could be one of the sweetest romantic comedies of 1998? 

My "Magic 8-ball" predicts it is certain. 
