Director: Penelope Spheeris (Decline of Western Civilization II-The: Metal Years, Dudes, & Suburbia) Cast: Mike Myers (Wayne Campbell), Dana Carvey (Garth Algar),: Rob Lowe (Benjamin Oliver), Tia Carrere (Cassandra) I must admit being a bit reluctant going into this film.

I didn't believe that they (Mike Myers and Dana Carvey) could hold it up for an hour and a half, I figured that perhaps the first half-hour would be great, and the rest would be "fluff."

However, I was really surprised about how well they were able to keep the laughs going for the virtually the whole film, with the exception of the ending.

(Which I won't discuss for obvious reasons, but it's not *that* bad.) 

Story: The plot was quite thin, but it really wasn't that noticeable, because of the rapid-fire jokes that Myers wrote in.

Alot of the jokes are very similar to Hot Shots!, in being very "parodyish."

(Okay, bad term.) 

Extremely witty throughout, although (as in HOT SHOTS) it got a bit repetitive in the middle. 

Acting: As in many comedies, the acting isn't really *that* important. 

However, Myers turns in a good performance as Wayne, playing the character perfectly, (Although I still liked him better back on MUCH MUSIC, in a more "Canadian" type of mode.)

Carvey is okay as Garth, but he lacks the spark Myers puts into Wayne.

Tia Carrere is mediocre as Cassandra, playing it very stilted.

Lowe is fine as Ben Oliver, but is nothing to write home about. 

Without a doubt, this movie is Mike Myers all the way. 

Direction: Spheeris is a classic "music" movie director, making DUDES, and DECLINE OF WESTERN CIVILIZATION II--THE METAL YEARS.

(She also directed THE BOYS NEXT DOOR, which is different, to say the least.)

She is very capable, knows how direct a comedy, the correct camera movements it instill laughs, etc. One of the better jobs I can remember for a comedy. 

Overall: I would suggest to anyone that likes SNL's skits to go see this film in the theatres.

However, my personal opinion, as in most comedies, is that they work just as well on video.

You definately have to be fan of music, and all forms of media in general to enjoy this film.

Without a doubt, this is the best comedy so far this year.

It'll make tons 'o' dough for everyone involved.

Let's just hope they make a thousand sequels. 

[ Sorry, I had to get the lame joke in...

Forgive me. ] 
