TIME BANDITS, from Director Terry Gilliam, is a very different fantasy Action/Adventure movie about a group of time-traveling dwarves, led by Randall (David Rappaport), who have stolen a map of the Universe. 

This map contains time hole, that, if exploited, enable the men to travel back and forth through time. 

The Supreme Being of the Universe (Ralph Richardson) is the former employer of these treasure-seeking bandits, and he wishes desperately to regain the map.. 

During the travels, he appears as a ghostly face, demanding that they return the map that they have stolen. 

But, according to Randall, they are just "borrowing" it. 

Kevin, a young boy who seems quite bored with his life, is unexpectedly brought into the schemes of the little men when they appear in his room, which has a portal for time traveling. 

He joins up with the men and becomes part of their gang, following them on their robberies. 

Their first victim is Napoleon (Ian Holm), whom they rob during a battle that he is commanding. 

From here, the group travels to the Middle Ages, meeting up with Robin Hood himself. 

Eventually, Kevin is separated from the group and travels to an Egyptian time where he is taken in by King Agamemnon, played by Sean Connery. 

Kevin accidentally saved the King's life, and the King wishes to have Kevin as his son. 

But the group of bandits find Kevin and transport onto the deck of the Titanic. 

Meanwhile, the Evil Genius (David Warner) is watching the group from Fortress of Ultimate Darkness, attempting to find a way in order to bring the men, and the map, to him. 

When Randall learns of the Fortress of Ultimate Darkness, which supposedly contains "the most fabulous object in the world", the dollar signs seemingly appear on his eyes, as he is convinced that they must travel there. 

Once inside the Fortress of Ultimate Darkness, it is unclear as to if any of the men will make it out alive. 

TIME BANDITS is a fantastically made film that caters to the imagination of anyone. 

With a terrific soundtrack, courtesy of George Harrison, whom also was an Executive Producer, TIME BANDITS is sure to be a very surrealistic, time-traveling adventure with unforgettable characters that is sure to entertain anyone. 

Terry Gilliam, however, does not utilize that greatly his trademark ability in moviemaking during this film, although this does not affect the film that greatly. 

And finally, if you liked LABYRINTH, you'll love TIME BANDITS. 
