STAR WARS: Episode I-THE PHANTOM MENACE Review 

Starring-Liam Neeson, Ewan McGregor, Natalie Portman and Jake Lloyd Director-George Lucas Rated G For more MOVIE VIEWS by Jamey Hughton, visit: 

With all the hype that Star Wars: Episode 1-The Phantom Menace has been receiving, it seems almost impossible to avoid interest in seeing the film. 

The movie is easily the most anticipated motion picture ever, with a marketing campaign so strong it has brought Colonel Sanders, the Taco Bell Chihuahua and Pizza Hut together. 

Can George Lucas succeed yet again with transporting us back a long time ago, in a galaxy far, far away....? 

YES. 

This Star Wars prequel may be the worst of the bunch, with amateurish dialogue and an overall lack of humanity. 

But that doesn't mean it fails to comply on the basis of solid entertainment. 

The Phantom Menace features the most eye-catching, jaw-dropping visual look in cinematic history. 

The tremendous action sequences will have you clinging to your arm rest, and the special effects are nothing short of the best (and most plentiful) to ever be caught on film. 

The vast digitized worlds and sheer imagination that was applied to this project is astounding. 

The Phantom Menace is a delectable feast for the senses, even if it has some disappointing aspects. 

After we're treated to the famous prologue in the sky, with John Williams' thundering score, we meet Qui-Gon Jonn (Liam Neeson) and young Obi-Wan Kenobi (Ewan McGregor), a Jedi master and his trainee ` Padawan '. 

They are on the ship accommodating the fleet headquarters for the evil Trade Federation, and have been sent to settle disputes regarding the taxation of trade routes to the planet of Naboo. 

Oh, but enough about that. 

The prime concern for this prequel is introducing young Anakin Skywalker (Jake Lloyd) into the picture. 

As you already know, this seemingly charming lad is the boy who will soon become Darth Vader. 

A spectacular Pod Race comes soon hereafter. 

This particular race is the most exciting, energetic, high-octane action sequence that you'll ever see. 

One of the delights of the series is meeting the newest set of strange alien creatures that Lucas has devised, and The Phantom Menace is no exception. 

I loved Sebulba, the rat-like scoundrel whom Anakin has to face in the Pod Race, and Boss Nass, the leader of the Gungans (who are a neighbouring species to Naboo). 

One character who has been subject to criticism is Jar-Jar Binks, a member of the Gungan race. 

Jar-Jar speaks like Roger Rabbit on a hallucinogenic drug, and is there for the sole purpose of supplying comic relief. 

Yes, he is initially annoying, but I can admit to laughing over some of his harmless, goofy antics. 

There is some lack of dramatic pull in this Star Wars entry, but the presentation almost makes you forget the plot and character lapses. 

The final light-saber battle, between the Jedi's and the horrific (and terminally underused) villain Darth Maul, is spectacular to behold. 

Jabba the Hutt, Yoda, C-3PO and R2-D2 have cameo appearances. 

Lucas has not forget how to captivate an audience, even if his latest shows obvious signs of tiredness. 

One can only wonder what the possible technology will present for the next two installments, Episode's I and II. 

When they arrive, you'll know where to find me. 
