I remember making a pact, right after `Patch Adams', to not be easily be suckered by movies dripping with sentimentality.

But darn it, `Music of the Heart' is just layered with feel-good material and bright characterizations. 

It's hard to dislike a movie that uses such skill with it's manipulation.

In addition, it's also a terrific family film. 

This is the true story of violin teacher Roberta Guaspari, who fought the school board to keep the musical program active in a handful of inner city Harlem schools.

It could also be described as `Mrs.

Streep's Opus '. 

Yes, Meryl Streep brings her dramatic clout to the demanding role of Guaspari, and that brings both good news and bad.

Out of the gate, possibly because of her distracting star power and the rushed writing, it is relatively difficult to identify with Roberta's character and grasp her academic point-of-view.

She is very strict with her students, but what insight does that create into the story?

Slowly but surely, we begin to recognize the intentions of the character, and show admiration for the thoughtfulness and human feeling that Streep has once again applied. 

One thoroughly interesting fact about `Music of the Heart' lies with the unlikely presence in the director's chair: horror veteran Wes Craven.

After leaving an impression with the `Scream' films and the original `Nightmare on Elm Street', Craven has attempted a precarious cross-over to drama.

At first, his inexperience with the genre is fairly obvious, but as the film progresses Craven finds a surprisingly comfortable niche with directing this material.

It doesn't carry the heart-warming courage of `Mr.

Holland's Opus ', but `Music of the Heart' is casually assured and filled with little morsels of dramatic truth.

The tag team of Streep and Craven works better than you would anticipate. 

Yes, Oscar could come calling once again for Meryl Streep, but it's the solid ensemble cast that makes `Music of the Heart' work.

Angela Bassett displays her usual forceful stamina as Janet Williams, the principal at an inner city school who initially doesn't hire Roberta because of her lack of experience.

Blue-eyed Adian Quinn is endearing, as always, playing a new love interest.

Gloria Estefan also delivers in the tiny role of a supportive second-grade teacher, and the three lead actresses together produce a flaming fireball of estrogenic force.

It's like a schoolteacher's version of `Thelma and Louise', in a restrained but effective manner. 

The movie tackles more issues than just Guaspari's teaching of violin. 

There's some powerful moments between Roberta and her two sons, who must cope when their father leaves them for another woman.

In it's dramatic build-up, the movie manages to produce some authentic moments of feeling and warmth.

It's a good movie for anyone to see, although missing out on the experience would not be a life-altering decision. 

It's commendable of Wes Craven to be attempting such a difficult cross-over, and also for achieving his intricate goal.

Watching this heartfelt chick flick about morals and musical instruments, who may ask yourself: This is the guy who directed `Scream'?

Of course, when the third installment of that series comes around in February 2000 (with Craven directing), you may find yourself wondering: This is the guy who directed `Music of the Heart'? 

Mission accomplished, Wes. 

Thankfully, there is no layer of artificial sentiment covering the film.

In it's entirety, it's a wholesome and agreeable movie for the whole family, despite the periodic flaws that surface every once in awhile.

The child actors are cute and perform up to par, even if some of their problems are clichéd and predictable in the extreme.

The mother who doesn't want her son to be learning `white man's music', the unexpected casuality... basically everything is there. 

It doesn't strike the perfect chord, but `Music of the Heart' is highly convincing.

The uplifting true story of Roberta Guaspari could have been told better, but `Music of the Heart' is still edifying enough to properly divulge her morals. 

Your Comments Appreciated: [ 1]">HREF="mailto:movieviews@hotmail.com">"

