You know you're in for a truly different cinematic experience the moment you realize Steve Buscemi has been cast as the movie in question's most normal character. 

Such is the case with "The Big Lebowski," Joel and Ethan Coen's first venture since their "Fargo" nabbed nationwide acclaim and a mantlepiece of Academy Award nods. 

There's no need to fear that the Coens suffered creative burnout with that accomplishment, because "Lebowski" is an effort that makes words like "strange" and "unusual" seem like an understatement. 

Thanks in part to delicious characterization and an all-encompassing sense of humor, the film is a smashing success. 

The central oddball here is the Dude (Jeff Bridges), an unemployed cad whose ambitions appear to be zilch beyond smoking pot, drinking beer and going bowling (are you college students already rooting for him, or what?). 

One night, a pair of thugs break into his house and pee on his carpet, a threatening act that's supposed to be carried out against a famous Pasadena millionaire (David Huddleston) who shares his birth name--Jeff Lebowski--with the Dude. 

Once the Dude realizes this coincidence, he visits the Big Lebowski in hopes to claim reparations for his soiled rug, and is back to his normal life with alley pals Walter (John Goodman), a hotheaded Vietnam vet, and Donny (Buscemi), a mild-mannered surfer, before too long. 

Soon, though, Lebowski's trampy trophy wife Bunny (Tara Reid) is kidnaped and held for a hefty ransom, and he turns to the Dude for help. 

It seems Bunny's troubles are related to a line of work she's kept secret from her husband--she's actually an adult film star and is very in debt with a shady producer named Jackie Treehorn. 

The Dude, now on Lebowski's payroll, accepts the offer and agrees to handle the money drop; Walter tags along and insists that the Dude keep the cash for himself. 

Chaos obviously ensues, and the Dude eventually finds himself in hot water with cops, crooks and Lebowski's ultra-eccentric artist daughter Maude (Julianne Moore). 

"The Big Lebowski" deserves to win the Coens the same amount of acclaim that "Fargo" did; while that 1996 black comedy was certainly a better film, "Lebowski" is at least as breathtakingly imaginative. 

The movie boasts a mile-high absurdity level that sometimes threatens to topple over, but thankfully never does. 

The Coens (Joel directed, Ethan produced and both wrote) keep you in stitches as they unravel their exceedingly loopy tale, and must be commended for juggling a number of people and subplots one would expect to find in a Robert Altman flick. 

Whether we're watching Bridges fend off a marmet in his bathtub or Moore don Viking duds and dance in a Busby Berkeley-esque dream sequence, "The Big Lebowski" is immensely lively. 

There are those who will dislike this film, but not because it's boring. 

The cast has a great deal of fun with the bounteous material they're given. 

Bridges exudes a likeable, surprisingly sweet presence; his Dude sure isn't the cleanest guy around, but you'd still follow him to another movie. 

Goodman merits 1998's first Oscar consideration, as Walter's manic temper is one of "The Big Lebowski"'s many highlights; the same goes for Moore, whose throaty, delectable performance as Maude is a hilarious hoot. 

John Turturro may very well steal the movie with his two scenes as a colorful bowler from a rival faction. 

Sam Elliott's rambling narration gets the film off to a solid start. 

And some will recognize Peter Stormare--"Fargo"'s silent heavy--as Carl Hungus, a porn star who's really a samurai sword-wielding German nihilist and has-been pop star. 

Only in its final third does the movie falter, with a couple of loose plot threads and some cast members who quickly disappear and never emerge for a curtain call. 

These flaws are forgivable, though--the Coens have crafted a tale so rich with personality that it's hard to look at the final product with anything but a big grin on your face. 

Without a doubt, "The Big Lebowski" is the best film so far this year. 

Sure, we're only three months in and the competition ("Deep Rising," "Desperate Measures," "The Wedding Singer," etc.) has been pretty bland, but it's still the gospel truth. 

Maybe during next awards season, "Lebowski" won't be a far cry from "Fargo." 
