SCREAM 2 has a titillating little scene that lays down the unwritten law of horror movie sequels quite well. 

During a film-class discussion, Windsor College students articulate what these inevitable laws are, and why sequels never live up to the originals. 

A few rare exceptions are noted, but they left out one... 

SCREAM 2! 

1996's surprise horror blockbuster SCREAM became an instant hit and developed an obsessive coterie of fans which included almost every teenager in America! 

A sequel was unavoidable, but luckily the re-teaming of writer Kevin Williamson and director Wes Craven gives us nothing to fear in the way of lost entertainment. 

In fact, at the risk of sounding sacrilegious to all the adorning fans of SCREAM, I would say that SCREAM 2 might even be the better film! 

Sidney Prescott (Neve Campbell), the sinuous heroine who survived a series of murders in Woodsboro, CA in the original SCREAM, is now two years older and off to college, majoring in theater. 

Meanwhile, TV journalist Gale Weathers (Courtney Cox), who covered the murders in the first film, has since written a book about the dreadful events; a book titled "Stab", which has been developed into a major motion picture. 

As SCREAM 2 opens, a crowd of overzealous teenagers are piling into a crowded movie theater for the premiere of "Stab", and before long, a young couple are butchered to death, unnoticed in the midst of hysteria. 

This marks the beginning of a new murder spree as an unknown "copycat" sets out to repeat what's been done... and finish what hasn't! 

Of course the killer is just as obsessed with movies as the killer in the first film, and yes, movies play a huge role in the bizarre psychological outlook the murderer holds as he/she goes about slaying an assortment of gorgeous twenty year olds, but this *is* a sequel, and without deviating from the original groundwork we are still given a fresh outlook on horror movies. 

This is in large part due to Williamson's deliciously written script, which will easily leave you satisfied. 

As much as the film condemns the use of cliches, it is riddled with them, but it is done so effectively, and with skillful direction by Craven, that you're not bound to complain. 

I will note, however, that the "whodunit?" did wind up being the first person I suspected, but believe me, I kept changing my mind as I tried to stay one ahead of the movie. 

All the actors outdo themselves here. 

We're not talking Oscar performances, but Cambell, Cox, David Arquette as Dewey Riley, and Jamie Kennedy as Randy all give surprisingly satisfying performances that go beyond their last outing. 

The characters remain true to their roots, and yet show a clear sign of development over the last two years. 

We can see how the events in the first film has affected them, but we don't lose any of the luster that made them such a delight to watch in the first place. 

The nice thing about SCREAM 2 is that it doesn't seem off-kilter from it's predecessor. 

It's a natural, smooth, and believable (as far as horror films go) transition from film to film. 

We skip two years, but there doesn't seem to be any holes or shortcuts taken in connecting the two flicks. 

It flows so well that you feel more like you're reading chapter two of a book (long chapters, eh?) than just revitalizing a cast of familiar faces. 

While main characters are usually the only connection in sequels, SCREAM 2's entire plot structure correlates *completely* with the first, making for immediate fondness and absorption. 

As I said before, SCREAM 2 easily lives up to, if not surpassing, it's precursor. 

The only reason SCREAM will likely be hailed above SCREAM 2 is because it was the first. 

This doesn't mean that it overcasts the unique, whimsical humor or overall caliber of it's sequel, it just means that SCREAM will forever be known as the movie that mocked it's own while maintaining it's sought-after qualities. 

If ever a film followed it's original so well, it would be SCREAM 2, and it makes this a definite must-see for all those unbridled SCREAM fans out there. 

SCREAM 2 fits snugly alongside SCREAM, and will hopefully receive as many high remarks. 

It would top off the series quite well, if it weren't for the fact that two movies don't really make a series. 

It's unlikely to assume that a SCREAM 3 won't appear in the next few years, but if they do decide to turn this into an undeniably acclaimed horror-trilogy, let's hope they can keep up the fantastic work. 

Like they say, don't mess with perfection... but when a money-making smash-hit is almost guaranteed, who's gonna listen? 
