Upon taking a seat at the theater, and surveying the crowd, I soon realized that I was the only person under forty in the premises.

I'm twenty-two, but have been accused of looking sixteen. 

Yet as the film began, any consciousness of setting shifted to the home of five close-knit, yet troubled sisters.

Director Pat O'Connor (Inventing the Abbots, Circle of Friends) weaves a quiet yet affecting tale of loss, need, and the bonds between five sisters.

The family is ruled by Kate (Meryl Streep), an unconsciously strict schoolteacher, who is completely conscious of the deterioration of her family.

There is very little background given to the viewer, as we are thrust into a tense but loving home.

Squabbles take place one after the other, caused by years and years of history.

Perhaps one of the best things about this film, is its naturalness.

No situation is over-wrought, and characters react as real people do, to real problems.

This probably is a result of the film being from a stage play.

The play was in turn is based on a time in the life of the playwright. 

What seems to be an underlying theme are the pagan rituals and dances of peoples, both in Lughnasa and Africa.

In fact, dance seems to be the glue that holds the family together and most expressively shows their closeness. 

Legs tap, and bodies sway even in the midst of impending disaster.

Only after the music stops, and the characters stand breathing heavily do we sense any trouble.

In the quiet after the music we muse that it's sad that music has to cease, and families falter. 

The movie is framed by a scene of Michael Mundy, the narrator of the movie, as a young child flying a kite.

He trips over a bump and loses hold of his string, and the kite floats off farther into the distance.

Drawn on the white diamond of the kite is a face that looks at once pained, and at another glance mischievous.

The Mundy family itself follows a similar fate to that of the kite, and Kate's hold of the family isn't strong enough to hold off the winds of change.

As Michael stands, staring at his kite fly away, we hear the adult Michael, looking back at the season that his world changed forever.

The movie is not overpowering, but it gives us a beautiful window into the life, love, and trouble of a household of lonely women. 

Note: this is the first movie review I've ever written, any responses on it would be greatly appreciated.:) 

