[1]http://members.aol.com/DeWyNGaLe So many students strive to get into schools such as Harvard of Princeton, but they just don't get the good grades.

So many students would do ANYTHING to reach their goal of getting into this schools.

Legend has it that if your roommate commits suicide, the remaining roommates will get an automatic 4.0. 

Chris (Michael Vartan) and Tim (Matthew Lillard) are two guys who really want the 4.0 to get into Harvard.

How far will they go to get their 4.0? 

Chris and Tim are also roommates with Rand, played by Randall Batinkoff.

The two scheme to murder Rand, make it look like a suicide, so they can supposedly get their 4.0.

They have heard this rumor many places, and they are willing to take the chance to find out.

Rand is a very, very mean person.

He treats his girlfriend Natalie, played by Tamara Craig Thomas, like she doesn't matter at all.

She is very afraid of him, and she especially afraid now that she must tell him she is pregnant.

She does tell him, and he becomes enraged.

That night would be the last night of Rand's life.

Tim and Chris give Rand a bottle of rat poison, making him think that it is beer.

Rand drinks down the poison, and then dies.

Now, Tim pushes him off of a mountain with a suicide note near the site to make it look like he killed himself. 

It does not take long until the suicide note is found, but the body isn't found.

The police question Chris and Tim about Rand to try and find any information. 

Feeling extreme guilt, Chris is having a very hard time, especially with his girlfriend, Emma, played by Keri Russell.

She wants to know more, but he will not even speak with her.

Will he give in?

Will Tim turn Chris in?

Will Chris turn Tim in?

Will they turn themselves in?

All of these questions were running through my mind while watching this slick suspense film. 

The events in The Curve are very surprising, original, and fun.

The plot sounds much like Dead Man on Campus, but that is not the deal with this film.

This film is a very serious one, with not many laughs.

There are many twists and turns that make this film different from most films.

The ending in particular is completely unpredictable and satisfying.

It is a terrific, suspenseful ending that I could never predict would happen.

Hands down to Dan Rosen who wrote this wild ride.

The sound really stood out in the film. 

It is quite eerie and it really adds to the feel of the film.

The way the movie is filmed is also great.

All of the technical aspects, as well as the acting and directing aspects are very well done. 

The performances in The Curve are very good.

Matthew Lillard gets to play another creepy role, just like in 1996's Scream.

(A+) He is very strange in this film as well.

I like him in this sort of role, rather than the roles he has been playing in comedies such as Senseless and She's All That.

Michael Vartan is fantastic as Chris, who has extremely mixed emotions about the entire murder and the 4.0.

Michael Vartan was also superb in Never Been Kissed, where he co-starred with Drew Barrymore as a teacher who fell in love with his student.

Keri Russell also gives a great performance.

She should be a good actress in the horror department of the film.

Tamara Craig Thomas is also realistic, especially coping with the death of her boyfriend. 

Some very strong supporting performances came from smaller roles, such as Bo Dietl and Anthony Griffith who play two detectives investigating the case. 

The Bottom Line-I might just have to curve that A-into an A. *Note-The Curve premiered at the Sundance Film Festival in early 1998.

It was decided the film would not be released widely.

It is now available at Blockbuster Video only, and for rent only.

See you at the video store! 


