APOLLO 13 is simply one of the most dramatic film this summer (apart from swashbuckling BRAVEHEART). 

Director (and former actor) Ron Howard (SPLASH, BACKDRAFT, FAR & AWAY), most noted for his dramatic film making, displays again his brilliance in creating drama and suspense in APOLLO 13. 

Being the second largest box office hit in the US this summer (with more than US$150 million in the states alone), this film is his most successful effort yet. 

Perhaps one of the most appealing feature of this film is the pool of talented actors such as Tom Hanks (GUMP himself), Kevin Bacon (FOOTLOOSE, TREMORS, A FEW GOOD MEN etc.), Gary Sinise (FORREST GUMP), Bill Paxton (ALIENS, TRUE LIES, BOXING HELENA) and Ed Harris (THE ABYSS, JUST CAUSE).. all of whom gave good performances in their respective roles. 

Apollo 13 was the second worst accident ever to occur in the history of US spaceflight (the worst being the Challenger accident). 

Jim Lovell (HANKS), the mission commander, together with his crew, Fred Haise (PAXTON) and last minute replacement Tom Swigert (BACON) are put to the ultimate test when part of their command module explodes on the third day of the mission, more than three quarters way to the moon. 

Suspense and drama ensue as the three men are left in space with their spaceship out of control and the problem of surviving the journey home... if they ever reach it. 

Ed Harris and Gary Sinise who play, respectively, the man in charge of the entire mission control and the astronaut who was supposed to fly but was diagnosed with measles, both delve into their roles superbly. 

Audiences are shown the chaotic and worrisome state of the entire ground control crew, as they frantically attempt to come up with ideas on how to save the astronauts from hurtling into space. 

Also, there are quite a number of real news footages which were broadcast during the accident which took the entire US nation into 5 days of drama in 1970. 

The special effects by Digital Domain are up to standard and the music suits the suspense and drama very well, thanks to film-music maestro James Horner. 

Watch out for the launching sequence, it is simply one of the most breathtaking scenes of the film. 

A bad point though: APOLLO 13 features much technical jargon and many physics concepts in its script. 

Those who consider themselves ` scientifically illiterate ' might have a slight problem understanding what caused this and what caused that during the course of the show. 

This is however, just a minor point, just forget all those technical bullshit and immerse yourselves into the drama and suspense throughout the film. 

You should enjoy it. 
