Well I'll be damned... the Canadians CAN make a good movie. 

The world is coming to an end. 

We don't know why or how, but apparently there is no way to stop it. 

The world has had this information for months, as most of the rioting and other assorted chaos has passed and governments have shut down operations. 

Yet for a handful of Toronto citizens, life goes on. 

They aren't going crazy or attacking people in the streets. 

Instead they are simply preparing themselves for the end... some engaging in activities they've always wanted to do, some gathering with family and friends, and others just seeking to be alone. 

These people's lives however all intersect during their final six hours. 

Writer-director-star Don McKellar has crafted a highly unique and emotional film. 

All of the main characters are compelling as they try and do whatever it is they need to do on their last night on Earth. 

Craig (Callum Keith Rennie) tries to fulfill all his sexual fantasies, a gas company employee (David Cronenberg) calls every customer letting them know the gas will be flowing until the very end and thanks them for their business, and Patrick (McKellar) just wants to be by himself but isn't having much success. 

Even minor characters keep popping up where you least expect them to, tying everyone even closer. 

Things seemed a little hokey towards the beginning of the film, but ultimately everything comes together nicely (although it's not a happy film... some moments are understandably gut-wrenching). 

The story is enhanced by some unexpected humor and very realistic performances, particularly from Sandra Oh, whose character is just trying to get home to her husband before the end. 

I have absolutely no problem that the reason for the end of the world is never given, nor does it bother me that the world is ending at exactly 12 midnight (in Toronto anyway). 

But I do wonder why the sun never sets. 

Come midnight, the sun is still shining brightly. 

Maybe the sun is crashing into the earth... who knows. 

Also, it's comforting to know that in mankind's final moments on the planet, people will still gang up on the street for the sheer purpose of pushing over a car or a bus (that's not a shot at this film mind you... 

I know people are just stupid and truly would be out in the street tipping over cars). 

Last Night is available on DVD from Universal Home Video. 

It contains the film in fullscreen format and includes the original theatrical trailer. 
