Synopsis: As a response to accusations of sexual prejudice in the armed forces, a female naval intelligence officer is chosen to be a test case.

If she can survive the demanding S.E.A.L. training, she will open the way for other women to be permitted to follow in her footsteps.

Throw in a lot of political machinations, sabotage, brutality, water and sand and you have an entertaining movie. 

Review: The title of this movie turned me off at first.

I mean 'GI Jane?'?????

The other titles which were considered were more promising-In Pursuit of Honor or A Matter of Honor would have been acceptable although Navy Cross or Undisclosed are a little meaningless as far as I'm concerned. 

I went into this movie not liking the title and being one of those people who thinks that Demi Moore is absolutely ghastly as an actor.

To my surprise I really enjoyed the movie.

Moore as Lieutenant Jordan O'Neil is much more likeable than her washed out excuse for a gusty woman in A Few Good Men. 

The storyline is simple.

Anne Bancroft playing Senator Lillian Dehaven is a ruthless, machiavellian politician with an agenda to push.

Using feminism to achieve political mileage, she forces the military powers that be to backdown and permit a test case to enter the highly intensive Navy S.E.A.L. training.

Jordan is selected due to the fact that she has it all-looks, brains and strength. 

The training is gruelling and the indignity almost painful to watch. 

Nonetheless, it's one of those movies that makes me want to cheer out and encourage the hapless hero/heroine along in his/her endeavours.

Sure, there are the stereotypical elements-inhuman treatment, sexual innuendo, resentful peers, pained boyfriend and sexist commanding officer.

Stepping away from the stereotypes though, Viggo Mortensen as Master Chief John Urgayle tries to get away from being nothing more than a brutal screamer. 

His character exercises a little more intellectual rigour than you would normally expect from such a character. 

Jordan's boyfriend Royce is also in the military.

Although they both started at the same time, due to the fact that he has seen active service, he has advanced through the ranks much more quickly than she has.

Royce (what is his surname?

Do we care?) almost resents Jordan's attempts to advance herself, although he quickly settles down to being doe-eyed and supportive. 

His character seems to have been thrown in so that we know that you don't have to be a lesbian to want to be in the military. 

In parts, this is a very silly movie, with gratuitous lines and scenes thrown in for effect which are so blatantly obvious or contrived that it's hard not to cringe.

I still liked it though.

Weaknesses in the script aside, this is a film which captures a heroic and reckless mood.

As we watch Jordan's battle, it's increasingly clear that it is a personal battle.

This is an individual's fight for self-advancement.

We don't have to have our teeth set on edge by didactic preachings, we don't have to feel uncomfortable because we're having ideology thrust down our throats.

It's enough that we can sit back and hope that this one person gets what she wants and we can admire her tenacity and determination without coming out and saying whether we believe women should go into combat or not. 
