Date Released: July 5'th 1996 (Denmark) Running Length: 2:38 Starring: Emily Watson, Stellan Skarsgaard, Katrin Cartlidge, Jean-Marc Barr, Adrian Rawlins, Jonathan Hackett, Udo Kier and more..

Director: Lars von Trier Story: Lars Von Trier, David Pirie, Peter Asmussen Cinematography: Robby Mueller, Jean Paul Meurice Music: Joachim Holbek The latest epos from Lars is a blast, although a rather moody one.

This lovestory is situated in a small town in the rough dreary cliffs in the vestern part of Scotland in the 1970 something.

The church (Calvinistic) is so strict that the church bells has been removed from the clocktower, they are considered being too unrestrained.

In these surroundings we find the to-be-weds Jan and Bess, played by Stellan Skarsgaard and the remarkable new movie actress Emily Watson.

Jan is on leave from the Oilrig and Bess.. is just Bess, a bit naive and innocent (in every aspect of the word), at first. 

At the wedding party we are told an anecdote, illustrating her infinite kindness, she once lend a bike to an stranger, her best friends bike however.

But Bess is suffering in this scary religious society.

We soon take part in a funeral where a man, fallen off the orthodox path, is laid to rest while doomed to Hell.

Women are not allowed to attend funerals or speak up in the church. 

When the end of the honeymoon approaches we see Bess idolizing Jan in such an intend, almost manic, that her friends try to calm her down a bit.

The time has come when Jan is to return to the rig, Bess is falling into the darkness of depression, her yelling of grief and sorrow are heard above the breaking of the waves.

She can't stand the thought of life without her husband.

We witness her dialogues with God (she speaks both parts, Paranoia?) convincing God to return Jan from the Oilrig, and her prayers are heard. 

An accident on the rig bring him back, paralysed from the neck and down.

Now he can't satisfy her need for physical love, he try to persuade her into finding a lover, with the ulterior motive to make her describe these affairs to him in every detail.

At first she resist, but her love for Jan and his assurance that this will make him recover more rapidly make her comply. 

Imagine what this is doing to the poor girl? 

The story is cleverly divided into eight chapters parted by beautiful pictures made by Danish artist Per Kirkeby, accompanied by music from the era; Procol Harum, Deep Purple, T-Rex and others.

The use of hand-held camera and lack of any make-up make the characters solid and help to separate this movie from others in the sentimental genre.

The incredible performance from the actors makes the movie brilliant, though a bit too gloomy for my taste.

I would say that it is in the genre of Betty Blue (37.2 le Matin) and Bitter Moon (Lunes de Fiel).

Emily Watson as Bess and Katrin Cartlidge as her best friend Dodo deliver outstanding performances, this must be the reason for giving it the "Grand Prix du Jury" in Cannes this year (although we had hoped for the "Palme D'or").

The screenplay is now available in print, the transformation being made in the period from ultimo May to July, just in time for the Danish premiere. 
